these are just like quick ads we do very
informal hey everybody this episode of
the Joe Rogan experience has brought
said my name should say the podcast
experience brought to you by stamps calm
what stamps.com is is a method that
allows you to use US Postal Service to
print US postal service
right from your home computer right from
your office computer right from your
desktop just a regular old computer and
a regular old printer you can print
official US postage for any letter any
package any class of mail all for a
fraction of the cost of an expensive
postal meter and if you go to stamps
comm you never have to go to the post
office again it's so easy with this deal
that we offer you if you click on the
old-school microphone in the upper right
hand corner of stamps comm you enter in
the promo code J ar e you get a no risk
trial $110 bonus offer which includes a
free digital scale and up to fifty-five
dollars of free postage then take your
packages you weigh them you calculate
all the jazz print out official US
postage slap it on the old box postman
comes hand it to him and your diggety
diggety done that's it you don't have to
go to the post office you don't have to
wait in line you don't have to talk to
some completely under motivated and
underwhelmed person it really doesn't
want to be there at all much rather beat
you over the head with a club then way
your stupid fuckin packages you don't
have to do any of that all you have to
do is go to stamps.com and sign up for
this offer and before you do anything
else click on the microphone at the top
of the home page type in j.r e that's
stamps.com
and enter in j.r e it's easy it's
convenient and you remove stress and
hassle from your life if you own a small
business or if you regular send out
packages of varying weights and sizes
this is the way to go kid
trust me stamps.com and remember before
you do anything else click on the
microphone at the top of the home page
and type in j.r e for your one hundred
and ten dollar bonus offer well also
we're also brought to you by Legal Zoom
LegalZoom is a fantastic way to deal
with
see I like stamps.com you can deal with
shit from your home that you would
ordinarily have to go somewhere for with
LegalZoom you could deal with so many
legal issues without having to schedule
an appointment with a lawyer on their
time drive through traffic park
sit down paying exorbitant of money to
some person again it doesn't really want
to fucking talk to you they just want
your cash you could do all that stuff at
home and do it for a fraction of the
cost and do it quite easily you can form
an LLC or incorporate to start your own
business very easy to do you can apply
for a patent to secure an invention
register your trademark to protect your
products and services and you can do it
all drunk and naked no one can stop you
you could take illegal drugs and do
something legal do you know that I'm not
I'm not advising it but if you so chose
to do it it is your right as a person as
long as you do everything correctly and
everything's filled out the way it's
supposed to be you're good and if it's
not filled out the way it's supposed to
be here's the beauty of legal zone
LegalZoom can connect you to a third
party independent attorney if you're in
a cold sweat panic and you think that
you've done something illegal if you
filled out the forms you know like this
shit is not gonna fly you can contact
Legal Zoom and they will hook you up
with a third party attorney Legal Zoom
is not a law firm but they do provide
you with legal self-help through
independent attorneys see legal
self-help is the way to do it if you can
get things done
like filing patents like forming LLC's
forming a will you can even get divorced
Shh
you can get divorced through Legal Zoom
and they have an A+ rating from the
Better Business Bureau you can't go
wrong with that a plus not a minus not B
plus a plus from the Better Business
Bureau over the past 14 years they've
helped over a million businesses get
started right go to legalzoom.com and
when you go through the month of June
and you can get a special price on
trademark copyright or provisional
patent applications by using the
referral code Rogan
at checkout celebrate innovation with
LegalZoom through the end of June I
remember LegalZoom is not a law firm but
they do provide you with legal help
through independent attorneys someone's
trying to fucking text me in the middle
of a goddamn podcast I guess they don't
listen anyway go to legalzoom.com use
the code word Brogan check out that
weird noise you hear that you don't get
that I think it's the phone I think if I
put my phone near my computer
they fucking argue with each other
telepathically it's probably it is
that's it legalzoom.com use a code word
Rogan
we're also brought to you by ting ting
is a mobile service that does things
differently to do things on on their own
terms and what that means is they buy
time through the Sprint backbone they
use Sprint's you get the exact same
service that you get with Sprint but you
get it with no contracts no early
termination fees no nonsense
they don't trick you and there's a lot
of ways that cell phone companies make
money and one of the ways they make
money is they they charge you for X
amount per month like you know you have
a deal where you you know you get 1200
minutes a month or whatever the hell it
is but when you do that most of the time
you're not using those minutes but
you're still paying for those minutes
the wait ting does it it's a very smart
and I and I think it's a better way and
I think it's the only way that they're
gonna do in the future what what they do
is you pay for what you use if you use a
lot you pay more if you use very little
you pay less and ninety-eight percent of
people would save money using ting
that's a pretty incredible statistic if
you go to Tings website go to Rogan ting
calm they'll explain the whole thing to
you twenty one dollars is the average
monthly bill per device for ting
customers that's amazing because you'd
be you'd be surprised at how little when
you when you look at these service
minutes you know you know like a hundred
minutes a month two hundred minutes a
month most of the time people are
texting each other these days and if you
call me a lot man most the time
pick up the phone I don't spend a lot of
time calling people $440 is the average
annual savings per device for a business
with one to twenty employees so if you
have a business ting is the way to go if
you want to set up business phones and
you have many options as far as the
phones themselves you have all of the
best Android phones that are available
today and you buy them you don't see the
thing about when you go to one of the
big-name cell phone companies and you
get a phone you're not actually buying
the phone well if you pay $200 for a
phone you're not really paying $200 for
that phone the phone costs probably five
or six hundred bucks and you think
you're paying $200 but the other 300 to
400 dollars you're paying off over the
course of your contract that's why if
you try to leave they stick it to you
and they make you pay what you owe them
so it's that's what a contract
termination fee is but it's all about is
you still owe money on a device you'd
essentially leased a device ting doesn't
handle it that way at all with ting
everything that you you you purchase
with that they sell at ting calm Rogan
ting calm there are the finest cell
phones available today like the excuse
me Samsung Galaxy s5 which is
water-resistant just added
water-resistant if you're a fucking dork
like me spill shit that's the way to go
they have the HTC One m8 all the best
new Android phones the Samsung Galaxy
Note 3 which I use fantastic phone you
can draw on it as a pen how can you go
wrong and if you like one of those old
crazy grandma's they have flip phones
they have everything and as cheap as 42
bucks you can get a phone for 42 bucks
which is kind of ridiculous in this day
and age and when you buy it for 42 bucks
you actually buy it for 42 bucks and if
you know you know you try it for a while
and you go you know what I want to
cancel just cancel that's it you don't
have to worry about shit it's a
beautiful ethical way to do business and
the results have been fantastic massive
massive public positive feedback that
I've received from all the people that
have switched over to ting saved money
love the company love the idea behind
the company and love the fact that they
have a wide selection of
devices so go to Rogen dot ting comm
today and save yourself some cash kids
all right
my friend Steve Hilton is here we're
gonna talk about all kinds of groovy
shit let's cue the music experience
Steve helps in my friend politics for
dirty business very dirty but just
before we get into that show you I just
want to say you've already really
offended me fantastic just to show you
my phone Oh what have you got here it is
aa flip phone so if I'm in your words an
old crazy grandma well I have many
friends that carry old flip phones I'm
glad that you're actually just carrying
a phone exactly this is a very new
development for me well it's a good move
good been telling you I've got to have a
phone I had not had a phone for many
years finally I buckled under the
pressure and I got one of these yeah
Steve we became friends in Hawaii our
family we're all friends it's a very
cool little development I really enjoy
it but I think it I think it's quite
hilarious that uh your wife is involved
in Google and you avoid phones at all
costs you avoid technology you feel that
it's too entrenched in our life this
sort of digital web that we've all been
connected to yeah I'm trying to fight it
Joey just shut them off though that's
the beautiful thing when you don't want
to use them you shut them off yeah but
that's that kind of nagging away no
that's discipline right well I feel that
there's benefits and there's certainly
negatives to phones but I think the
positive aspects outweigh the negative I
like being able to communicate with
friends and family and loved ones and
send texts and I I find it incredibly
addictive though and I think it becomes
I was out at dinner the other day with a
bunch of friends and everyone was on the
ground and phone there was five of us
and then I was like sitting around the
table looking at everybody texting and
tweeting and taking photos I'm like
we're not even here right now but you
guys are your kin
acted to this digital world you talk
about how awesome it is to be here but
you're not even here you're barely
paying attention and there's nude sort
of etiquette developing about you know
how to handle this one there's I think I
was reading something about where you've
got eight people around the table having
dinner and it's okay for three of them
to be looking at their devices that's
okay but if you guessed it more than
three someone's got to look up because
that's the rule
who says says who establish what I don't
get it it's just there it's just like
anything else I mean if you are at a bar
with some friends and one guy's just
watching TV only and not engaging in a
conversation that's just as rude yeah I
think that's right I find it fascinating
how my children reacted devices that's
where I really get a sense of it because
they don't have a cultural context you
know when my four-year-old watches
television or watches devices and I'll
stand in front of her while she's
watching TV and she just reaches up and
tries to move me like she doesn't give a
fuck what I'm thinking she's just trying
to watch this program yeah you literally
can't get in between any point it's like
I've really noticed that if you just you
know they're watching something that's
it maybe you may have been away for a
week and you haven't seen them and
they're desperate to see but if there's
something on TV yeah point not
interested yeah it trumps everything it
Trump's all human interaction and it's
it's very weird how it does it it does
it in this strange hypnotic way there's
nothing else on earth that gets a
four-year-old to just sit there yeah
motionless right and engage but it
literally stimulates parts of the brain
there's a lot of quite interesting brain
science about what's going on when yeah
when kids watch TV and it's generally
fine but when it gets to a point where
they're watching you know more than two
or three hours a day and a lot of kids
these days are in that situation it
literally starts rewiring their brain
yeah it's not healthy to to completely
entrench yourself in that world and to
be in that world all day every day but a
lot of people do because it's possible
but I think that's just like everything
else it's like I like the option to be
able to buy a cheeseburger I don't think
you should service every day all day but
I like it if I want one from driving by
in and out I'm like let's do it you know
it's it's not the best food for you but
I like the option I totally agree with
it I like that for television I like I
like watching Swamp People watch that
fine and vanilla terrible show about a
bunch of people alligator huntin and
it's it's it's the most predictable show
of all time because they're they look
for alligators and occasionally they get
alligators but there's nothing unusual
happens they don't run into a giraffe
like who the fuck there's a giraffe in
the swamp no it's just alligators and
these people with these strange southern
accents in boats and they have fishing
line they catch the alligator with
fishing line that sometimes they shoot
the alligators but it's just alligator
hunters but they call it Swamp People
yeah I haven't seen that I'm not sure
that's gonna be top of my list but you
should invest you should invest you talk
about you know doing doing a little bit
of everything I remember when Jim when
that movie came out up at McDonald's
supersize me yes and this guy got ill
and fan whatever there's Morgan Spurlock
yes you know he made a good point but my
favorite response to that was from
McDonald's when the guy who runs
McDonald's in Australia went on they
took commercials and they went on air
when there's this big PR storm about the
terrible McDonald's food and all this
kind of stuff
and he went on air with these
commercials I'm gonna now attempt very
badly in Australian accent okay although
most people who probably couldn't tell
the difference
apparently there's some bloke who's
going around saying if you eat too much
of our food and don't take any exercise
you get fat well I could have told you
that sweet response which is yeah all of
something that's not good but a little
bit it's okay that's a quite Australian
response to as opposed to the measured
American legalese that I probably hear
from oh yeah there's no you know I have
a real issue with that documentary and
with he did a show also called 30 days
because I know what they're doing there
they're not necessarily just
investigating they're also trying to
achieve a desired result and that a
desired result being something bad
they're trying to do something that's
going to be titillating and oh my
goodness his liver is going bad like
he's sick he's sick he's toxic there's a
lot of people have called bullshit on
that especially the liver toxins and all
that stuff they're like where's
where's the liver toxin you're dealing
with carbohydrates and proteins and you
know and and fats but it's not like this
these things aren't toxic they're just
not good
they're just high in cholesterol and
they're kind of fatty and sugary yeah
but I know for a fact that they did some
fuckery on his show he had a show called
30 days where he's trying to achieve the
same results because they went to a
friend of mine who's a doctor and he
this doctor specializes in hormone
replacement therapy for older people for
older people and people that are you
know like started getting older you want
to replace her testosterone things along
those lines and they wanted to do it in
30 days and they wanted to do it on this
program take a man who's getting older
and in 30 days inject him with hormones
and the doctor who's an ethical doctor
said you don't ever do that he said we
would never do that he said what we
would do is we would get you on a proper
diet I would take your blood it would
take a week to get your blood results
back I get your blood results back I'd
want to get a detailed analysis of what
you're eating what you're doing what
kind of a lifestyle do you have it's not
a simple fix like we give you hormones
so what they did is they found a quack
doctor who did just shoot the guy up
with hormones and the guy was like all
road rage he and angry afterwards and
his fucking was wife wanted to keep him
chubby I mean the whole thing was a
disaster it's like this is not an
ethical examination of this yeah let's
really it's it's like it's entertainment
it's not a documentary or something it's
deceiving though the problem with
entertainment is it's not a puppet show
okay it's not a cartoon you're
pretending that you're exploring these
ideas and when I was doing that sci-fi
show I found some similar issues with
certain producers and certain people who
were used to that world of reality TV
reality TV has become this very strange
mishmash of choreographed choreographed
scenarios and predetermined scenarios
predetermined results and they do it
sort of in this guise of reality TV but
it's ER it's essentially it's like
loosely scripted bullshit yeah and
they're pretending that it's like this
is what's going on in the doctor's
office no you set that up that's not
what goes on in a doctor's office it's
not what
go on in a doctor's office you're
pretending because that's gonna get
people to freak out they took an agenda
you know that trying to make a point and
they said I hope like that edits it like
that right well the whole business is
completely fucked because the business
is started off with a bunch of people
that came over from scripted shows so
the legacy people that were involved in
these dramatic shows where there were no
until survivor came along there were no
reality shows quote-unquote reality
shows so I I have a deep understanding
of this because I hosted Fear Factor for
six years and because Fear Factor came
in in 2002 which was when all the
reality shows were being born so I got
to see where these people had their
backgrounds from and almost all of them
had their backgrounds from traumas or
from sitcoms or from the world of
fictional shows so much so that you were
considered to be like a traitor if you
were involved in reality show like
people people got mad at me that's
saying that I was taking jobs away from
writers because I was involved in in
reality shows I was like oh this is a
hilarious argument but these people all
came from this world where you
manipulate things in order to make drama
so they started doing that to the
quote-unquote reality shows so that's
what you're getting so this 30 days show
that doesn't exist anymore in supersize
moon show they're you know you're
tackling very complex issues and you're
doing it in too entertaining form and
when you do that this some integrity
that sort of like goes by the wayside
well I think that's right and that
integrity I think I had a real example
of that you in the end you're relying on
the people involved to have a bit of
integrity yes
ethics in the way they do their jobs I
just saw a little example this weekend I
was out doing stuff and I did a to do
with the election in my company and we
did a I did an interview for the local
news for the NBC News and we were doing
some demos of stuff with people in Santa
Monica and they wanted to film one of
the people that we're doing it with you
know interacting with our thing right
but with our website and at that point
note there weren't any people interested
in doing that so one of the team
said why don't we just pretend to be a
member of the public doing it and it's
really interesting because they said no
the producer and the journalist said no
no it's got to be you know a real member
of the public and I thought that was
really cool you know they they obviously
wanted to go they were busy they had to
get back to the studio they were really
annoyed that they're having to wait a
long time for an actual member of the
public but they really did say no we're
not going to fake it and it would have
been so easy and no one would have
noticed and in that moment it was
literally just their personal integrity
and it was really cool to see and I hope
that's really widespread in the news
business but it was just for me a really
interesting example of you can make
rules and you can have stuff but in the
end it's about people and their choices
in the moment it is interesting that
they chose to do that with integrity but
it's also interesting that someone
suggests that they not right exactly
exactly yeah that's the that's the other
side of it but it was I was really
pleased that that's what they decided to
do I did a show for CBS once called game
show in my head and the the premise of
the show was you would have this little
earpiece in that someone could talk to
you in so I would put an earpiece in the
contestants and send them out and when
they would be standing somewhere I'd say
okay can you hear me and they say yes
all right here's what's going on and
then these two guys came in with cameras
that were holding cameras you are a
reporter on the news here's your
scenario someone called in a UFO
sighting they saw a UFO sighting we
brought in the cameras unfortunately
that person went away so what you have
to do is convince some member of the
public that's around there to take that
person's place and to say that they were
the ones who saw this UFO and you have
to get them to say that they were taken
aboard this UFO and that they were
examined by aliens and so the guy you
know was it was kind of funny they're
like okay here we go all right how do I
do this what was shocking was how many
people when you put that camera on them
immediately said they would do it and
immediately started just lying just
lying
it was a silver craft I mean all walks
of life
very few people said no that was the
most shocking yeah when you had the
camera on them they just started talking
and they started sort of repeating these
iconic images that you always hear the
discs shape thing silver with there was
no bolts on it they they were like going
into detail and talking about the the
medical examinations and and this this
guy who and I think was a guy in a girl
you know these contestants who had to do
this we're just talking to these people
and we were all the producers in the
truck we're all looking at each other
like wow people are fucking full of shit
this is so weird it's so weird how easy
it is for some people to just justify
making up a story just in order for them
to be on camera yeah but what did you
think it's because they just it's the
camera they want to be on the camera is
that they want to please the other
person they want to be on TV
look clever what it could be that as
well but I think most likely it's they
want to be on television so they could
go home set their DVR and you know it's
it's not a ton of time that's me
fucking lying you know they just wanted
to be on television
I think for a lot of people in this day
and age that is just some sort of a
weird ultimate goal just to have that
camera on them and then they go home and
see it right whether it makes sense or
not and for a lot of folks it doesn't
make sense a lot of folks you know they
want ones of ruining their lives you
know they they find out how other people
feel about them plus you expose yourself
to the critique of millions of anonymous
people filled with hate filled with hate
and disappointment their own life and
just ready to spew venom in your
direction they just can't win that shit
all over used evil well this is judge
you this we had another thing this
weekend we went out and made a little
film just to test that out about the
elections going on in in in LA and we
literally went up to people and made up
candidates that are running for Congress
and and asked what they thought about
that you know and what do you think of
Angelina Jolie running for Congress and
they told ya I was so excited when I
heard that that's great you know I think
she's great
just that you can't believe how people
just engage with these things this may
just made it up and like you were saying
with the UFO thing he was like going on
about it it wasn't just saying yeah I
heard about that that's great he was
sort of embellishing it and talking
about it people are fucking strange man
there's strange and that's a real
problem when it comes to politics or
anything when you're allowing people to
make choices that can affect others
people are weird you know and a good
percentage of them are really dumb and
uninformed and not interested I mean
they when you say dumb and uninformed
here's what I think when I say that what
when I'm saying dumb what I mean is if
the human mind is essentially say if
everyone has the exact same physical
structure the exact same genetics the
exact same hormonal system and one
person does yoga every day and eats
healthy and does chin-ups in the morning
when they wake up and drinks a lot of
water and the other person sits in front
of the TV likes to smoke cigarettes eats
nothing but sugar you get to see the
results of the one person being very
aware of their body and taking care of
their body and the other person not well
you get that same effect with life you
get that same effect with how you
approach the world itself some people
approach the world through this lazy
disconnected you know like pop culture
obsessed nonsensical just pop culture
it's obsessive talking to you fuck he's
a little pop-culture upside not too bad
Jimmy's aware of a lot of other shit too
but some people just they don't enrich
their life they don't enrich their mind
they don't they're not they're not
curious and those people with all these
poor decisions and drug addictions and
the life's a mess they have an equal say
to the person who's rational and aware
and kind and objective equal say and I
think that's one of the weirdest things
about communities about culture it's
about trying to figure out how do you
mitigate the effects of the lazy how do
you how do you deal with the effects of
the morons like when when you have a
riot and people start pulling white
people out of cars and throwing rocks at
their heads which they've had in Los
Angeles in the past especially after the
Rodney King beating and things along
those lines just random white people
just attack them well how do you how do
you how do you allow when you see the
these things can happen and I just use
that in its example it could be million
other things that are really stupid that
people do how could it be that one
person gets one vote and another person
who is very aware another person who's
very educated another person who's very
kind and very sympathetic to all walks
of life it's a an equal vote one person
could be a total racist you could you
could go to a voting booth with a
t-shirt on it says fuck black people and
you could vote and no one could stop you
you know as long as you especially if
you have a shirt sort of like a flannel
shirt that's over the t-shirt that says
fuck black people so you have to really
look hard to see fuck black people and
you think you're getting over no one can
stop you you know and it's I think one
of the things that they were trying to
work around when they developed the
concept of a representative democracy
there the concept of America a
representative government so like okay
let's sort of them have some filters in
place we use voting but you're kind of
voting on a representative and the
representative sort of votes for you
they interpret what you I think that's
that's definitely part of the idea I
think that when you I mean that that
point you just made about the it really
reminds me actually the racist point you
mentioned made there was a really
effective commercial for Rock the Vote I
remember years ago and in the UK when I
was back there at the time and they they
literally had a some image of it wasn't
images like a TV ad of a rate of the
racist guy like spewing racist stuff and
then the the tagline for the ad was
you'd better vote because you can be
sure that he will know
really you know good way of making that
point but I think that generally you
know those kind of people are the
extreme I think the idea is that most
people are not you know the kind of
extreme end of it where they're either
totally and where their views is just
completely abhorrent or they are just
completely off the page in terms of
their knowledge you got you know
majority of people who are basically
interested in good things happening I
think the problem is they just don't
know how enough about it they're the
information they get is not interesting
it's not presented in a good way
there's other interesting things going
on they're busy with their life you know
they want to get involved and so what
happens and I think this is happening
more and more is you end up with a
smaller and smaller group of people who
basically control the political system
because the mass of people are just not
interested they're turned off they think
that getting involved won't make any
difference and so what you end up with
is people with a lot of money special
interests those who you know the kind of
professionals of the political game
running everything and that actually
makes people even less inclined to get
involved because they see what's
happening think oh well why should I
bother it's a really bad cycle I think
yeah and then people start saying things
like oh the New World Order's in control
anyway the Bilderberg Group is in
control anyway and there was some thing
yesterday that was in the news where one
of the members of the Bilderberg Group
in I think he's some Dutch guy had some
impromptu public discussion with all
these people and they start bringing out
all these details of 9/11 you know 9/11
those that the building was brought down
thermite and they stood and they circle
this guy and start talking to him and
it's it's kind of fascinating you know
this this idea of the Illuminati the
this idea of a small group of people
controlling everyone through iconic
symbolism eyeballs inside of pyramids
and all that stuff becomes in a lot of
ways a vehicle for for feeling
unempowered that feeling that's exactly
franchised that's what's good I think
that's that's how people feel yeah and I
certainly noticed I
to work back in the UK and the
government and I noticed that there I've
been in politics a long time that's how
people feel there is even more so here I
think you know if you just look today
we're speaking on election day in
California is the primaries everyone
saying it's gonna be the lowest turnout
ever no one's interested because they
don't think it makes any difference I
think that's the real problem and they
feel you know the whole idea of
democracy is people power is that you
have the power everyone that like you
saying everyone has the same chance to
influence things and they have the power
but that is not what it feels like to
people yeah and then every now and then
something comes along where they're like
how the hell did that pass and then they
free yeah exactly like Proposition 8
where they repealed gay marriage and
everybody's like are you fucking kidding
me in California you repealed gay
marriage the most shocking thing about
Proposition 8 to me was that over almost
over the the majority of black people
voted for it
they voted to my field gay marriage they
didn't want gay marriage which is you
know quite hilarious if you start
thinking about people that have been
persecuted right I mean who has been a
victim of unfair discrimination in this
country more than black people probably
know I don't know because I wasn't
involved in any way but I've heard when
you look at the day exactly to your
point that that was one of the reasons
and that was particularly the case
because it was in the year when Obama
was running and you had a high turnout
amongst those people who sigh Slee
because you had the first like candidate
on the ballot for president so he had
more black people voting and that was
one of the consequences yes % I don't
know if that's right but that's
certainly what some of argued do you
know how crazy 70 percent that's the
exit poll that's 70 percent of black
people voted for proposition 8 that's
stunning and the idea being for a lot of
them there is it was a religious
decision yeah I think that was a big
that's a big part of the story that's
told someone should tap challenge that
and what they should do is they should
make some sort of a proposition banning
shrimp you know like like have like
these big signs in front of Red Lobster
you know
Genisys like whatever whatever the quote
in the Bible that says you because
there's four times as many references to
shellfish as there is to gay people it's
like there's like a lot of references to
like that you're not supposed to eat
shrimp but you can go to an all you need
buffet and people right after church
that's really a right I don't know how
we allow it you're right needs to be
stopped it's bad but they can't that for
whatever reason the gay thing like
really locked onto people like they
really got into it they really got into
it for whatever reason you know the gay
the gay decision the decision to stop
gay marriage seemed to be like a one
that Jesus was really serious about that
shrimp thing then pick and choose pick
and choose you know you're not supposed
to get tattooed how many religions
people have crosses tattooed on their
body I mean that's the fucking that's
like directly is that it no I didn't
know that oh yeah tattoos no yeah round
upon yeah you're not supposed to mark
yourself okay you're not supposed to
tattoo yourself that's that's against
God's wish but people will tattoo
themselves with biblical verses just
yeah hilarious yeah well people are
weird you know and that my point that I
was trying to make clumsily earlier was
that it's kind of strange that we are so
varied and it's kind of strange that
everyone does get like if there's three
of us in a room you know we have to we
off to all decide and if one of us is
retarded not literally but our people
with Down syndrome or people that are
anyone that it's like mentally
compromised are they allowed to vote I
mean is there some sort of a test if you
imply that I don't know what the rules
are I think in the in the in Britain it
was something to do with I think the
only thing was if you're in jails I
can't remember well if you're a felon in
America we don't ever let you recover
we don't ever let you recover from that
so if you're a felon you don't get to
vote yeah you fucked up too much what
you never can no I don't believe so I'm
pretty sure felons don't get to vote
because Joey Diaz always talks about
that don't get too well
I know they can't carry firearms yeah
state felon voting laws guess it looks
like it's different in every state two
states allow felons to vote from prison
while other states may permanently
prevent felons from voting even after
being released so it's different it
varies from state to state it's amazing
permanently prevent yeah they lose they
vote they cannot vote permanently in 11
states Alabama Arizona Delaware Florida
Iowa Kentucky Mississippi Nevada
Tennessee coincidentally all places I
would never fucking live how weird oh
yeah you're worried about the rules I
think that that is amazing to me that
there's a which means this assumption
that there's no chance you can don't get
it back you know turn it around
never thank you can make a felony when
you're 18 like some stupid thing you go
to jail you come out and become like the
best person ever and they're never gonna
let you return that's ridiculous I mean
that's the whole point of what you try
and do with you know the criminal
justice system and so on is to try and
exactly you know rehabilitate people so
they don't offend again I mean that's
and try and get people to that point
yeah I think people are just so tired of
people just fucking up that they're like
you know what this is a good way to keep
fuck-ups from voting like once like the
idea that we were talking about earlier
that you know a person could be a racist
a person could be a completely nutter
and still vote along with a person who's
really kind and educated and so their
vote counts equally they're in a
community that assumes that nutter
robbed something that goes it's a good
way to cut them out of the system all
right fuck that guy you can't vote
anymore yeah which I guess kind of makes
sense but maybe it's just a numbers
thing if there's 10 people on an island
we would have to rehabilitate the guy
who stole the coconuts we have to say
come on man you can't be stealing
everybody's coconuts this is a fucked-up
way to live your life and you should
contribute stop stealing fish stop
stealing coconuts getting together and
then we let that guy yeah be a part of
consuming
by the way I think it's an important
point about about democracy generally I
think the closer it is to a real
community where everyone knows each
other right where the decisions are made
kind of by people who can look the other
person in the eye and all that I think
they're gonna be better I think one of
the problems is that you've got these
big big systems and they're they're
they're kind of really far from the
human level where that kind of trust can
be established and that is one of the
problems with with a lot of things in
government and politics it's all just
too big and removed from that human
scale well that's a problem with a lot
of things when it comes to human beings
just diffusion of responsibility that
comes with being a part of a massive
group like war yeah the idea that if
there's 300 million of us and a million
of us are overseas you know fighting for
freedom that's sort of like you you
could deal with that because it's not
happening in calabasas you know you can
go to work and you could deal with your
life and in your the scope of your world
it doesn't come up but you kind of
peripherally aware that this is
happening somewhere else but if people
in van nuys were going to war with
people in Studio City and it was only a
couple miles away and you had to deal
with that then it would be something we
would have to try to calm down
we'd have to try to deal with this like
what what's fuck's going on here like
what are we doing here we'd have to it's
it's something you have to deal with but
the the sheer number of human beings
that are involved in the world today in
communities and cultures it's just it's
almost unmanageable so I manageable for
a person who's not designed for that
we're designed essentially to deal with
our immediate atmosphere we're designed
to deal with small tribes of people
friends family the people that you know
the people that you keep close and when
you get past that it's just like almost
like what do we I don't know what to do
with this and so we pass the buck off to
some representative I think this is such
an important point I really do believe
that I think that so many things don't
work because they get away from the
point where you can really know the
other person and all the other group
that you're with there's some guy in
England that I think at Cambridge
University it's some research about the
maximum number of people that you can
really have any kind of human
relationship with at any one time I
think you got to a number 150 Dunbar's
number is that is that right
so yeah and all about it than I do I
thought that was just a really
interesting perspective on it which yeah
which is that after that it just gets to
diffuse we're not designed for it's like
your phone your phones only has a
certain amount of data that old fucking
goofy flip phone you carry around with
you if you have an older one like one of
those Motorola StarTAC s--
you know remember those from back in the
day big fuckin goofy clunky thing I mean
that probably only carried 100 phone
numbers yeah I don't know how many they
had but that the amount of data that you
can store new devices represents the
need that we have but we have these same
biological hard drives that cavemen did
I mean they're not really much different
than people that lived a million years
ago I mean how much it has it changed I
mean how many how many how much more
room do we have for social relationships
apparently not much like fifty thousand
years ago and today if you could took a
guy who lived fifty thousand years ago
and a guy who lived today and you
compare the brains how much would they
vary you could take a fifty thousand
year old man dress him up and close and
and sit him down in a movie theater and
you'd walk right by him you wouldn't
even know when you're sitting in your
seat you wouldn't go holy shit that's a
fucking caveman I mean the guy would
look very remarkably similar to how you
look and I look and how normal folks
look today
yeah we're not designed for this world
that we've created and it's it's popped
up so damn quick yeah exactly it's
really the last kind of well definitely
last 100 years but you know and it's
just getting faster and faster you know
this kind of everything becoming really
kind of organized this sort of inhuman
level and this mad struggle to sort of
organize it and to try to control it and
just just calm it down get a handle on
the effects of it and I think in a lot
of ways that's what you're doing with
this crowd packed thing with this crowd
packed thing is you are utilising these
tools these tools of the internet and
this instant access to information that
we have today to sort of establish a
much clearer sense of where political
candidates are coming from and what are
their influences as far as who is
financing them
where is you know where's their money
coming from where are their decisions
headed towards what what are they what
are they doing right now yeah I think
that's that's a really good summary of
it which is that basically we think that
what we when you talk to people about
politics one of the things they say is
that we just don't know enough about it
we don't know enough information
generally but we don't know we don't
have information we can trust we have
all this spin and ads and all the rest
of it from the politicians we can't
really believe them there's all this
stuff around on the Internet I don't
know what to believe so what we're
trying to do is give people really
objective information that they can rely
on to figure out where the politicians
are on the issues that they care about
and the thing that we found from our
research is that as my um one of my
co-founders Adam who's a professor at
Stanford has been working on this for
many years and basically what he's shown
is that the best way to predict what a
politician will do if they're elected is
to look at where they get their money
and to look at also who they give money
to because most politicians also kind of
donate to other candidates so if you
look at all that campaign finance
information the money behind this
politician that is going to give you the
best guide to what they're really going
to do in office and it's something that
you can actually what we're trying to
use like turn that into really simple
information that you can without kind of
reading tons of stuff and doing loads of
research you can get a quick snapshot of
who these people are and then in time
the other thing we want to do is make it
possible for you to find the politicians
that are really good or bad on the
issues that you care about and get
involved in their campaigns because the
other thing is that you've got a tiny
tiny number of people who are funding
all these campaigns if you look at the
the total number of people who put money
into politics it's a really small number
compared to the number of people who
vote and then the number of adults in
the whole country
it's a tiny number that are funding it
all and even within that most of the
money comes from an even smaller number
and they're paying for all of this and
they're getting the outcomes that they
pay for it's basically a transaction
that's what's really crazy and so some
people say
right you got to get money out of
politics that's you just got to get it
out and obviously that is something that
has a lot of appeal you can see why
you'd want to do that there's a
brilliant guy called Larry Lessig I
don't know if you come across what he's
been doing and he's been arguing about
this for years and he's been saying he's
a hobbit Harvard is a brilliant
campaigner on this issue of money in
politics and he's been saying if you
think about any problem in in America
today whatever the issue is that you
care about if that's gay marriage or the
environment or it doesn't matter what it
is you're not gonna get anywhere about
in terms of solving that problem unless
you deal with the first problem which is
the money because the money in politics
stops the proper solutions from being
developed because what it means is that
you've got the special interests and
whether that's left or right it doesn't
matter whether it's big businesses or
unions doesn't matter they want their
particular outcome and they're buying it
through the system so we've got to get
the money out and he's got a campaign
around that and and he wants public
funding for elections and so on and all
that is kind of a noble aim I guess but
my feeling is that that's a really hard
sell because you've got a constitution
that says it's free speech you're
allowed to give money to to politicians
and we can't just kind of stop that
you've got to let people donate to
politicians and so our take on it is to
say well if you can't take the money out
let's at least dilute the influence of
the people there right now by letting
more people making it easier for more
people to get involved and give money to
these candidates so they are not
dependent on these big donors with their
particular interests and that's really
what we're trying to do is kind of make
it easier for people to get involved in
politics so that they can really you
know get these politicians off this hook
theorem which is that their dependence
on these donors for their campaign
spending which means that once they're
elected it's kind of inevitable that
they pay attention to them rather than
the people who elected them in a lot of
ways it mirrors the influence that the
internet has had on the news itself
because the news used to be distributed
only through these proper channels
whether it was NBC CBS and then you know
the cable news network
- CNN Fox and all this jazz but now it's
become this thing where websites develop
Huffington Post all these the Young
Turks which is an internet-based news
show and they have no censorship they
have no restrictions they have no
influence other than the ones that they
choose to accept or the ideas that they
bring and they have the same amount of
distribution that everybody else does
and you can have a website just know
Mike's fuckhead com
yeah and put it up and if enough people
find it valid and interesting he could
have a million hits a day unique visits
a day and it might be more than CNN gets
and just simply because of the fact that
it's a good information it's a nice well
you've shown that with this I mean you
know you're reaching more people than
the most of these well I think all of
these news sites just ten and a half
million emelles like more than just
about anything else
well it's crazy this is exponentially
doubling and tripling and what's
happening is it's all being done with no
promotion I mean the only promotion is
like I let people know hey Steve
Hilton's on today yeah and then just
from oh yeah I mean that's respected to
hear that from Twitter and just
spreading the word yeah but what I was
getting at is that like the same way the
Internet has sort of interfered with the
distribution of information look at
what's going on with this Edward Snowden
case is a perfect example this massive
change in the way the entire country
looks at the NSA and government spying
was done by one man leaking information
to one guy in one source which spread
through the internet and then boom it
blossoms this huge news story that was
essentially if he had sent that same
story through the proper channels so
like the New York Times or CNN they've
referred the fuck out of it they would
have figured out a way to cover that
thing and throw it under the rug and
staple that rug down and light it on
fire I mean what he did was figure out a
way to distribute things for this and
through this new channel and
essentially that's what the internet is
doing with with voting before something
like the internet came along it was very
difficult to find out who the influences
of all these different individual
candidates were with something like
crowd packed it becomes much more easy
and that also will change the way these
people interact with yes I think and and
you know I really hope that that is you
know we're just at the start of it to be
honest I think that the political world
is really late for this kind of change
compared to like you say with media and
other things right and things that we
experience you know everyday in our
lives like you know like travel and
booking to you know there they used to
be a you know time when you know to get
an airline ticket you'd like to sort of
physically go to some shop and then have
these like weird paper to you know the
whole thing just feels so antiquated and
now it's so simple it's really like
you're saying oh it's him you've got the
power to do it you're empowered now you
get it on your phone you have to have a
ticket and that's your phone over the
scanner thing and that hasn't really
happened to politics yet but that is
what we're trying to do because and
others as well it's not just us but you
know I think that we've got something
interesting here which is this way of
giving people objective information
about the candidates based on who gives
them money but but overall we're part of
this movement of trying to really put
power in people's hands through
technology and I'm sure it's gonna
happen I'm really sure because people
want it you know they are sick of just
feeling that that they don't get any
response in these people over here
control everything and nothing ever
really changes and actually the
politicians themselves in my experience
they you know you think well maybe I
would say this because I used to work in
politics myself for the prime minister
in the UK so I kind of know them they
they're kind of used to be my world that
used to be my world my feeling is that
generally the politicians actually hate
this just as much as everyone else
they hate the fact that they have to
spend so much time raising money you
know literally there was this document
that was leaked to the New York Times I
think a while back from the Democratic
leadership in Congress where they gave a
kind of guide to the newly elected
members of Congress about how they
should spend their time and there's a
recommendation
to the newly elected members of Congress
and it went through how much how many
hours a day they should spend of
different types of activity you know
thinking about policy talking to
constituents this kind like half of the
time is four hours was recommended that
they spend on fundraising Wow right and
so the people who go into policies they
don't want to live like that they
actually hate it they hate you know
being shoved in a room which is what
happens and being they call it dialing
for dollars you know like just literally
sitting on the phone trying to raise
money that's not why they went into
politics how do they do that they just
call random people up or do they list of
potential the only give I don't know cuz
I've never done it but I think they I
think that's literally at their given
list of likely people so they just do t
eat eat eat hi I'm running for Congress
in the 33rd district and now I'd like to
get gay marriage the fuck out of here
what do you think I think it's pretty
much like that I don't know you can talk
to some people who know more about it
but um you know so I think actually the
politicians themselves mostly hate the
system and so I think that you know a
lot of there's a lot of that effort
actually in Congress to try and
encourage more small donors and make it
easier for people to give money because
actually that that's what they want to
they they don't like being beholden to
these big donors in these companies and
you know they don't like it any more
than we like it I think ultimately the
idea of leaders whether it's
presidential leaders or whether it's
representatives I think ultimately
that's gonna go away and my thought
about it is that anybody who really
wants to lead everyone else it's
probably an asshole you know I mean
anybody who really wants to be the king
like why do you want to be the king like
don't you have things to do don't you
have hobbies and creative pursuits and
like what why would you want to just be
the guy who gets to control be the one
who stands at the podium ladies and
gentlemen you know that's that's a weird
ego thing yeah I think that in 2014 and
the world that we live in today where
we're seeing this much more even
distribution of influence yeah I think
that ultimately that's gonna be one of
those things that gets called into
question
why do we have an alpha representative
why do we have to have this head monkey
in charge I really agree with it I mean
a lot of the things that I was trying to
do when I was in the government in the
UK and and it's kind of part of what
we're doing with crown pack is is you
know trying to encourage that even
distribution that more even distribution
app and redistribute power from the kind
of traditional sources of power and kind
of central leadership putting power in
people's hands so that they can control
more and more aspects of their life
because in the end they'll make better
decisions overall and it's also just
more healthy I think going back to what
we're saying earlier about you know the
way people can only know some on a
number of people and and if you give
them power to shape more of the things
that happen in their lives I think that
actually they will take more
responsibility they'll be more
responsible in a community sense you'll
just see everything get better if you
take power out of the hands of these
sort of lead it leaders and central
organisations and put it in the hands of
people definitely I think I think you're
right I think there's also an issue of
it being overwhelming the amount of
information that you have to absorb
whenever you deal with political issues
whenever you deal with campaigns
whenever you deal with new elections you
know you're given this pamphlet of
different people and the different
propositions that are up for vote and
you just get overwhelmed
yeah specially if you're if you have a
job that's taxing as it is and you have
a family and you know you're thinking
about golfing on the weekend god I'd
like to go golfing and you look at all
this bullshit and like oh I can't even
pay attention to this is everything okay
right now
yes well fucking let me just get this
over with and let's hope everything
stays ok and very few people take
responsibility for what gets voted in
yeah and it is I think you're right
though it is really Tom it's hard it's
easy to say oh the voters are lazy or
whatever they should be but honestly
like you say they've got real lives to
live and they've got time for all this
stuff and that is a really big part of
why we want to make it simple you know
we're assuming that people want to spend
less time doing this stuff not more time
right and I think a lot of the kind of
organizations and people that have tried
to get people you know mobilised you
know civic organization and the kind of
you know that kind of thing you know
it's work to a certain extent with some
people but for the majority of people
they just don't want to do it they they
can't do it actually they're literally
too busy with things that are higher
priorities like their kids and their
family and their job or whatever it may
be
hobbies doesn't matter it's stuff that
they choose to do and that's fine that's
their life and we shouldn't kind of
require that you have to spend ages
figuring out this political stuff and
that's why we're trying to make it
really simple for people but based on
quite a lot of complex what technology
allows you to do you can take quite a
lot of complex data and information like
we're doing with the campaign finance
records where it's literally hundreds of
millions of pieces of information and
we're boiling it down into one piece of
information which is a score like where
is this candidate on the on their scale
of liberal to conservative where do they
sit and where are they on each issue
that's what we're trying to do to make
it really simple isn't it sort of
analogous in a way to what we were
talking about about the amount of people
that you can keep in your brain Dunbar's
number yeah is that if you lived in a
small tribe if say if we all live 50 of
us together in some small village
somewhere we really wouldn't have votes
about gay marriage and we really
wouldn't have coasts about exactly
there's be a million different things
that would never be up for vote and if
someone really did start micromanaging
everyone's lives you'd be like hey you
know Mike is an asshole we gotta kick
him out of this fuckin tribe this guy's
trying to get people to wear purple and
you know where certain Nikes during
different moon cycles and make tribal
rules and rituals and make all these
things standard and you know for
whatever reason he doesn't like men
sleeping with men like he's got some
weird thing you know he believes it's so
true I just so agree with that one of my
favorite things that one of the these
experiments that happened was in Holland
I think I've got that right in in in
Europe and they did this brilliant
experiment with traffic where they in a
town I think it was Friesland or
something like that probably got that
wrong where they literally took away all
the traffic so
all of them everything right they took
away traffic lights they even took it we
know stop signs everything even the the
markings on the road so they took away
the white line in the middle of the road
everything all gone and their theory was
that without that kind of external rule
making and kind of stuff going on to
tell you what to do people would have to
kind of relate to each other as other
people and just figure it out amongst
themselves so they would you know have
to look other people in the eye and and
sort of work it out between them and
they found they had this brilliant
effect which was that accidents fell to
zero the traffic improved the traffic
speed was lower but the traffic flow was
much better it just worked all around
all the kind of things that you try and
do when all these people thinking about
traffic planning and whatever they
achieved all those aims by literally
taking everything away and just allowing
people to relate to each other as humans
and I thought it's such a great little
story and I think that you could do that
in all sorts of areas if you just leave
it to people to figure out on a small
scale where they can relate to each
other
you just get a much better result isn't
that the issue though the small scale
yeah
we're dealing with I drove here today I
live about 20 minutes from here
and in the drive from my house to here I
didn't know anybody I don't know any of
those fucking people they might not even
be real there might be robots that were
sent from the government to pretend
anything and that alien II was maybe
even I don't know them you know so that
there's there's there's that issue
whereas everyone in Friesland or
wherever the fuck that place was in
Holland those those people probably all
know each other you know it's a small
area there's not a lot when you get to
some weird number like the 20 million
people that are live in the Greater Los
Angeles area that's just too crazy it's
too it's too nutty and there's nothing
less human than a light a stop light red
means stop green means go wait look at
it it's green go I mean it's so
disconnected yeah from human interaction
and without it we become crippled
there's no better chance that you're
gonna run into a traffic stop or a
traffic jam then if a cop is directing
if there's a cop it's standing there
telling you people go forward and you
people stop for sure that guy's fuckin
that intersection up sideways every time
I go into one of those situations where
a light is down and there's a cop
standing there it's a fucking disaster
whereas if it was just a light it's just
red light green light everything seems
to work because we're sort of programmed
to wait for that light and like you just
yeah you can follow that if that cop is
there like oh this motherfucker look at
it no wonder this thing's a mess it's a
person out there telling us when we can
go fuck him who's he
yes asshole fat fuck telling me when to
go you know and this is this weirdness
involved and all of a sudden there's a
human element that's been thrown into
our robot light thing and then there's a
you know there's cameras that they were
putting on them for a while which were
hilarious on the actual cops no no on
the lights
cuz they're doing that too I think on
the cop yeah yeah they should they
should do that on all cops because you
do that on all cops everything a cop
does all throughout the day should be
recorded and it should be untampered
though they shots what that that I think
that's what they're trying to do so much
abuse it's just massive amounts of abuse
when it comes to police officers and I
think there's a lot of great cops out
there it's not that I don't believe in
law enforcement but I believe many of
them are abusive fucks and many of them
are psychologically unable to deal with
the demands of an incredibly stressful
life yeah I really talk I completely
agree with the way you put it that
there's tons of them that are great and
then there are others that totally
abused their position and that's it's
another really interesting example of
how technology can be really helpful in
in a way because you can you can have
that I think I saw that they're trying
to do in here the LAPD that if you put
the cameras on and you can't mess around
with them that's a really powerful
incentive huge to behave right
complaints have dropped dramatically and
they've dropped dramatically because
cops can't be cunts anymore I mean it's
really that simple it really is that
simple
what I was talking about was that
traffic they were having lights like if
you were going through the light as it
was yellow and it turned red they would
flash so if your wheels were not you
know it was if they were in front of the
line you hadn't made it across before
the light turned red they would give you
a ticket and but it would turn out to be
a private company that was actually
profiting from these tickets and so they
deemed that unconstitutional and they
removed all those lights but people were
just in a goddamn uproar it was just
madness
everywhere you go they're taking you'd
see flashes going off at traffic lights
in all was his revenue
it wasn't preventing people from running
lights or preventing people from you
know gunning it when the light turns
yellow it was just just fucking people
out of their money and it was just one
more thing where they complicate the
system for you they add one more element
that makes it one more thing you have to
think about one more little piece of
control and one more dehumanizing aspect
people like freedom and one of the
reasons why people like freedom is
because freedom isn't just the freedom
to do as you wish it's the freedom to
not have to think about a bunch of other
shit and be influenced by a bunch of
other shit that takes your time away and
takes your your energy away and I think
that's where we're at when it comes to a
lot of these propositions and a lot of
these really rubra complicated things
that are involved in our day to day
lives it's like we've complicated
ourselves to this point of almost of no
return and where there's a very few very
few alternatives yeah I think that the
thing that happens then is that they've
complicated it then it's not working and
they say oh we could better try and fix
it and then the the fixing of it makes
it even more complicated and it's just
getting there and then a new government
comes in or a new governor or whoever it
may be and and instead of actually just
stopping and thinking you know what this
hot we just got to rethink the whole
thing and start from scratch and and
just not tinker with it anymore and try
and improve it because it's just gonna
make it more complicated that never
happens there's never really enough time
for that to happen they're not there
they're only thinking about the next
couple of years in the next election or
whatever
and so things just get even more
complicated never they never seem to get
to that point weapon yeah that's really
working great now my wife and I went out
to this restaurant the other night and
the the restaurant was this we were
noticing that there's this theme that's
going on and a lot of restaurants where
they have like this rustic thing going
on where they have old-school lights the
filaments in them and then they have
hardwood tables and wrought iron this
and metal that and and I was like I
think people are sort of reacting to
this fabricated world that we've created
and we long for this simplicity that's
why there's these shows like these
Alaska shows where people living on the
frontier and they're fucking collecting
wood and fighting off wolves it's like
we almost long for that simplicity above
this world that we've complicated to
this almost unmanageable point yeah it's
definitely true and you see in in so
many eras that I mean it's like food is
a great example well there's kind of
stuff about organic food and seasonal
and local and grow it in your garden and
that whole movement I think is in
reaction I mean if you think about food
like years ago like in the 50s I think
you know it was all about you know let's
have you know the all the kind of TV
dinners packaged food and all this kind
of industrialized food that was then
seen as better because it was you know
scientific and hygienic and like really
kind of good for you and then people are
now just thinking that is just really
horrible this is all the chemicals it's
disgusting now the movement is all for
this kind of local organic food it made
me laughter because my family from
Hungary and so when I was a kid we used
to go back to Hungary the whole time it
was a communist country and there were
no you know food stores loads of choice
and everything and you would go in the
store and it was just you know what you
got just a few sort of vegetables and it
was it was just very basic and now
remember the other day walking around in
San Francisco and there's the kind of
farmers market thing going on and they
had that kind of you know ugly
vegetables and whatever put out there
and he just looked exactly like hungry
the Hungarian communist food shop but
here in San Francisco it's the most
expensive fancy amazing food that you
can get
but it just makes me laugh really it's
just I think a lot of it is just you
know you know reaction to what's gone
before and we're currently I think
you're totally right in this kind of
sense of he's just gone too far the
whole industrialization of so many
different aspects of our lives well as
also we're starting to realize where
people live in cities and they look
around and they see all these buildings
and they see this asphalt and they see
these telephone poles and they go
there's no food here we have to bring in
the food like this is kind of crazy like
and then you get on top of a building
and you look around and how far the no
food here area is it's pretty goddamn
big and then you look at all the
different people that live in the no
food here area that require food you're
like fuck we got to feed these fucking
people and then you go where's this
water coming from and then you go oh it
comes from Colorado what the water comes
from fucking what it comes from the
Colorado River Oh No
so the only way we get water in
California is we have to take it from
thousands of way thousands of miles away
that's the only this is a crazy place to
be like we're in this unsustainable
environment and new people who here
every day new thousand people every day
boom boom boom set up a fucking house
built this another structure boom and
then we slowly push out our no food here
area deeper and deeper into the desert
and you know no one's thinking about
where this goes and so far so good
sustainable go to the farmers market you
can get plenty good groceries but very
bizarre if there's somehow or another
some cut off of our oil supply some some
way where we can't travel as easily
anymore we're in a real rut it's a bit
not a good spot it's not ideally every
neighborhood should have like a couple
of acres where it's set up where you
grow food yeah like that would commune
was just totally grew that there's a
there's a brilliant guy
I don't you come across and called
Nassim Taleb he wrote this book called
the Black Swan and he was really um he's
a he's a mathematician and he was in the
financial markets and and he really kind
of predicted the crash and understood
all that and he
great and one of his big points is that
these big systems that we've ended up
with and the word he uses are they've
completely fragile they're really they
look kind of big and and and solid but
actually we're so dependent on them that
it makes us really fragile if they
collapse or fall over or whatever
whether that's a company or some
government system we're really screwed
because they're we're so dependent and
that's really a kind of fragile
situation and so that's definitely one
of the reasons I love what he writes
about and talks about is that he's
arguing for exactly that kind of thing
you know making sure that companies
don't get too big to fail not just in
the financial sector a lot of people
have talked about that with the banks
there's too big to fail argument but in
every area with the food system and
other types of businesses where we're so
dependent if something went wrong we you
know we couldn't cope with it and when
you have small distributed it's just
like we're talking earlier about the
power being distributed it's not just
voting power and political power its
economic power it's social pact every
type of power it's just going to be much
better for us if it's distributed more
broadly and we're a long way from that
it's actually going in the other
direction yeah it's going the other
direction and very few cities are
diminishing in population unless there's
something horribly wrong like Detroit
where if have you ever been to Detroit I
have not it's fascinating
while you're over here in America and
you're enjoying our fine country you
should go see our biggest disaster
because Detroit at one point in time was
this economic stronghold for America
that's where we built Camaros and
Corvettes and Firebirds and it was this
place where it was where America built
what it built best which is besides
buildings it's cars America built cars
and it all fucking fell apart it fell
apart when they started moving jobs to
Mexico and all in other countries it
fell apart when they started producing
shittier and shittier cars and when
there's all sorts of complications with
unions and with a million different
problems and then slowly but surely they
started diminishing these these
factories and there's a really
interesting
documentary I don't know if you watched
Michael Moore's first documentary Roger
and me and did you ever see yeah
Roger me was all about Flint Michigan it
was about his hometown where they closed
down these plants and then these people
went into immediate massive poverty and
it was a huge huge issue and if you go
to Detroit today you could buy a house
for five hundred dollars and I'm not
bullshitting they have houses for sale I
was there five hundred bucks and it's a
mess it's a real mess I mean if they're
there's in areas where they're trying to
gentrify these areas and they're
building local businesses and they're
trying to you know encourage growth and
you know I mean if a company wanted to
move there they have a massive amount of
people that are looking for jobs and
cheap land and it's a good idea it's a
good place to start but very very
difficult to encourage people to do so
so Detroit shows how easy things could
fall apart and there's been a bunch of
blogs that have been created where
they've websites where they've shown how
these trees and nature are taking over
these areas that used to be populated
where trees are that's amazing I
remember that not yeah bear bears are
moving into these areas that used to be
at least to have you know towns and
bears are slowly starting moving their
way into Detroit and it's fucking crazy
yeah but that's that shows you how
easily it could all fall apart whereas
you know 50 60 years ago here's some
here's an image that Jamie just put up
there's your trees that are growing
inside of this abandoned building
they're just growing through the floor
and eventually they'll make their way
through the roof and the roof will rot
and it just shows you how easy it is for
nature to reclaim areas that human
beings feel like if well this is a city
now now it's a city for now you know
it's not a city now it's not permanently
a city like this is trees just go you're
um go to the airport drive down
Sepulveda there's areas where it's
really old roads and these trees have
grown up through the sidewalks so bad
that the sidewalks are you know you
can't walk on them I mean they're
they're like ramps because the tree has
slowly but surely lifted up the concrete
of the sidewalk
as trying to reclaim this area they've
put this stupid rock paste over yeah you
know I think that's like one of the best
examples of how easy it could all fall
apart
yeah and the kiss was that point about
being dependent on something yeah but
it's interesting cuz you're a lot of I
mean I've loved going around other than
getting to know other American cities I
mean they I mean that's a bad example
you've got some really great cities you
know that seem to be thriving and
working and they're just really cool
places to to live and work I love
Chicago as an amazing car is fantastic
but then you've got a huge problem with
the with the crisis just so interesting
how you have a city that is so great in
so many ways and there and they've got
this sort of pocket of real poverty and
crime and that's been going on for years
and despite all the other advantages and
they've got a lot of you know great
economic growth going on there and so on
and people visiting and it's great but
they still got this product.this
entrenched problem with crime and gun
violence and you know it's just it's
interesting how how long it takes for
some of these problems to be worked out
yeah Chicago is a disaster in that sense
it's a great city but it's also a
disaster in the sense of crime and gang
violence and I was there I was talking
to this guy was a cop and he's
explaining it to me that a big problem
is the drug trade and that certain gang
members were incarcerated and because
they were incarcerated they created a
vacuum that was there was a power
struggle to try to fill the vacuum that
power struggle started this sort of
violent war going on between all these
different criminal factions and then you
know it builds up and you know he was
really kind of interesting because he
was talking about it goes you know what
the best way to fix it he goes legalize
drugs he goes nobody wants to hear about
it but the reason why they're making all
this money is is because they're selling
something that's illegal
and so when sell you're selling
something that's illegal the only people
that are doing that are the people that
are criminals and he goes as soon as you
make it legal you deal with a personal
choice issue and the guy was like very
rational about it it was like you
dealing with the personal choice issue
instead of a crime issue but I think
that's exactly right I think is one of
the more kind of interesting ways into
that whole drug legalization
argument is is to think about the the
social problems that come from the
current rules not not just you know the
a lot of times people talk about the
drug use being a social problem but
actually it's everything that comes from
it the crime and the gangs and and
that's I think the you know the the most
intelligent argument for legalization
yeah and there was a real interesting
article recently about Mexico where they
were talking about the cartels like
hemorrhaging money because they relied
on marijuana trade and now with legal
marijuana just legal marijuana in
Colorado and in Washington State and
then all the medical places have
massively diminished the amount of
influence that these guys have of the
amount of wealth that they can get from
selling illegal drugs because people
don't need it anymore it's super easy to
get so like the marijuana trade which is
one of the most common drugs it's kind
of drying up for them and so they're
scrambling to try to find some other
avenues of revenue it's pretty
interesting stuff because it just shows
people this is this is what you do when
you make things illegal and it's we
should have figured it out in the 1920s
with Prohibition I mean it's amazing
that people are so goofy today that they
still are dealing with the same issue
that they kind of resolved in the 1920s
yeah almost a hundred years ago they
figure this out with alcohol and they
have to relearn the same lesson with
with cannabis it's just it's nutty and
it's again it's another thing where it's
a personal issue where you have just too
many goddamn laws you have too many
restrictions on personal exactly right
and it's interesting I think that the
the politicians have been put off for a
long time from from doing anything about
it by the kind of reaction that they'll
think they'll get from certain parts of
the press and so on but actually I think
that's changing and it's changing really
quickly here in America
yeah and the fact that you've got these
ballot measures that are winning in
different states and that's just going
to accelerate I think not just that the
amount of revenue they pull in with no
resistance whatsoever Colorado has
thirty nine percent tax revenue on
marijuana that's sold recreationally
thirty nine percent and everyone there's
like okay 39 percent school they're like
no one's arguing over the most
preposterous sales rate ever that is 39%
it's fucking crazy it's basically the
government is a drug dealer I mean
that's what it is I mean so you're not
just taking taxes you're fucking a
partner you're a partner in this thirty
nine percent is a big partner you're at
almost 40 percent okay and then they're
making over a hundred million dollars a
year in tax revenue just in the state of
Colorado so when that kind of money
starts coming in then the that money has
influence and then they have to respect
the pot dollar because the pot dollar is
gonna be a lobby just like anything else
just like the pharmaceutical Lobby just
like the natural resource lobby just
like anything else the pot lobby is
gonna be legit now because there's gonna
be a tremendous amount of revenue
available and big business that there's
big businesses that are moving into
Colorado right now an establishing
warehouse warehouse spaces in Colorado
are just they're evaporating they're
disappearing left and right because
people just picking them up there the
way Colorado's laws are set up in order
to sell marijuana you have to grow
marijuana so if you wanted to open up a
shop in Colorado you'd have to grow your
own stuff and then sell it you can't buy
it from someone else and then sell it so
they're just giant warehouses everywhere
being scooped up and they're setting up
these massive grow-ops and then they're
funneling that money because it's being
sold legally to funneling that money
right back into the state at a rate of
39% it's crazy and huge companies are
slowly but surely creeping their way
towards Colorado because they realized
this is this is a multi-billion dollar
industry in just a couple of years
you're looking at three four five years
from now a multi-billion dollar industry
nationwide places where they're having
serious money issues serious problems
with generating tax revenue all of the
sudden all the profits that are going to
illegal sales of marijuana now thirty
nine percent of that money is gonna come
right to the taxpayers or right to the
tax collectors and if they got any um I
guess it's a bit early but I just
wondering what the what they're seeing
in terms of people's behavior the usage
lower crowd they are the drug is that
right lower crime and lower murderer
murder rates have dropped in Denver yeah
of course they're high tonight they're
gonna get twice well they're gonna think
twice they're gonna think I don't need
to shoot that do it whatever that's his
problem
you know look it's it's never good to
suppress people and when you have
something that's irrational like
marijuana laws there's it it gives
people this feeling of frustration does
this disconnect it gives them this
feeling of being disenfranchised with
the the people that are supposedly in
charge you know and it makes them upset
like why should a grown man be able to
come if there was only two of us who we
were living on an island and I was like
Steve I don't think you should smoke pot
if you smoked pot I'm gonna lock you in
a fucking cage
you'd be like you're an asshole right
like there's only two what do you give a
shit what I do it's when there's two
million of us that you feel like you can
get away with something like that that
someone come along and say I'm the
sheriff and if I find someone smoking
marijuana in my district I'm gonna put
them under lock and key you know I'm
gonna make our streets safe for the
children all that stupid shit that they
say well what it's just too many numbers
it's too many people but what I'm
interesting is like just coming to you
know I've been here two years now but I
just get a feeling that that is a really
quite kind of almost mainstream position
a lot of people feel like that in
America maybe it's a California thing I
don't know but then I'm interested why
the libertarian movement you know the
political expression of that kind of
attitude is the Libertarian Party
they're candidates they don't seem to
get anywhere they don't seem to do well
even though that kind of attitude feels
to me like it's really very kind of true
to the American approach to things and
is shared by a lot of people I can I
hear that a lot
I think it's slowly but surely starting
to gain momentum but I think the
Internet's influence is barely two
barely two decades 1994 to 2014 right
that's that's the realistic take on it
but the real impact as far as like
social impact I would I would say it's
probably a decade so ten years is not
that much time and then in that decade
how much of it has been concentrated on
social change
and how much of his be concentrated on
porn you know how much concentrate I
look we can see tits any time we want
now whoa
and this newfound freedom this newfound
ability to access information it's gonna
take a while before I think people are
evolving right now I really do socially
at a rate that's just unheard of it's
never the kind of movements that you're
seeing now whether you agree with them
or not whether it's operation Wall
Street or whether it's anytime there's a
social change or social movement in this
country whether you agree with it or not
it's fascinating to step back and watch
this swarm of activity that takes place
because of any issue that comes up now
that really couldn't couldn't happen
before without you know you'd have to
have like a physical meeting you'd have
to have people would get together and
someone have to have a megaphone and
well we need to do is take back the
streets what we need to do is make the
world safe for our children and we need
to get out of Vietnam you know and then
you know the cops come and break it up
and hose everybody down and they would
shut down the problem well you can't do
that anymore you can't shut down the
problems because the problem exists on
reddit the problem exists on millions of
people's Twitter accounts where they're
posting things that probably exists on
Facebook the problem exists anytime
there's dissent that dissent sort of
encapsulates a an entire group of people
that share these ideas and they can
freely communicate and I think they're
just starting to realize that they can
freely communicate the way they can and
unfortunately a lot of them are annoying
unfortunately a lot of people that have
figured this out or annoying and you see
these really dumb ideas that spread like
wildfire wildfire and a bunch of idiots
are behind in its that's fascinating to
watch too but I think ultimately when it
all balances itself out we're gonna deal
with a much more informed much more
educated much more aware much more
socially conscious society than we have
ever had in the past I think a decade
from now to Dec two decades from now
we're gonna see the rewards of this and
I'm very optimistic that that way of
thinking about and I agree and I guess
what we're
the way we're thinking about it is that
that we want to kind of now the next
step really is to really take that
energy and and really direct it into the
heart of the political system mmm not
kind of on the edges of it with kind of
protests and and and sort of social
movements but really getting into the
guts of the of the way laws are made and
bright and the way the country is run
the states around cities are on and and
and kind of injecting it into the into
the real heart of power I think that's
got to be the next step
yes I I agree and I hope that it can be
done I mean I wonder if the way
technology is advancing and the way
technological innovation seems to
exponentially increase if there's some
way to manage things in a way that's
sort of not discovered yet or sort of
hasn't been no one's figured out a way
to sort of organize this whole thing in
a way that's much clearer and now we're
dealing it's almost like code like do
you remember what code used to look like
when used to use DOS and if you use an
old computer you emptor everything in
command prompts yeah but then someone
came along like Xerox figured out this
graphic user interface you just well
fuck all that just see that thing just
double just press twice when you want
that to open up and boom and then you
see a graphic representation of what you
want it's a much more simplistic element
you don't have to look at all the code
behind what you're doing when you're
using Microsoft Word cut all that shit
out let's just see let's let's make it
real simple and if we could get get it
to that in politics like okay what would
make what would what would we have to do
to make more money go towards school and
less money go towards war like is that
it's not a way is there a way we could
work that out if you look at how much
money is being spent in the Iraq war how
much money is being spent in Afghanistan
is there a way to take 30% of that and
put it into our schools because oh my
god the school system would radically
change our education system would
radically
the amount of people that would come out
of these educational systems that were
more balanced more aware had more
nuanced perspectives would radically
change our country would radically
improve like over the course of a decade
if you could just figure out a way to
put that kind of power in people's hands
what they choose to do well I think the
way that you do that is it goes back to
what we're saying earlier is is actually
literally doing it by by getting rid of
these kind of big organizations central
government organizations that try and
run the whole system from some office
somewhere that's completely removed from
the from their parents and the kids
that's actually using the schools and
and really give responsibility for this
through the way the schools operate to
local communities so that they can try
things out because every kid is
different they learn in different ways
whatever nature feels to me like when it
comes to education we got this approach
which is someone has decided you know
this is the theory this is how we're
gonna get kids to learn whatever it may
be
and we're gonna try and have a kind of
common application of that in every
school and everyone's going to teach the
same way and that's great and I just
think that the evidence shows that is
not right it doesn't work for every kid
and you want to have a system where you
know you've got much more ability to
experiment and try things out and adapt
things to each each you know different
type of child and that way that they
learn and and I think we need to see a
lot more kind of smaller schools where
they're much more kind of community run
a pill are you saying with the gardening
I think it's sort of a community
approach to these things is gonna be the
way to do it you definitely need the
money of course to sort of have high
quality as well so I agree with that
it's just that if you just put more
money into the current system of
organizing schools I don't think you'll
get the kind of benefit that you could
if you actually gave the power over the
system and took it away from the people
at the center and put it in the hands of
people locally that that's how I would
do and if they did that you could also
see the results positive and negative
and imitate the positive ones so you
could see like
these people have an approach and their
approach is more sort of Waldorf School
based and less electronics and more
wooden toys and interacting with kids
and look at the benefits like man all
these people are coming out he's so
creative but then there's another place
in San Francisco that's much more tech
vald everybody has an iPad and all these
kids will lose a benefit there as well I
mean I think schools are a huge issue
there the massive underfunding of
education in this country is a huge huge
issue and it's it's madness and it's
almost like sort of ensuring that
poverty and that this is good I think
that's right not I mean yeah and a lot
of it is the kind of people that go into
teaching you know you really you'd want
the best people the smartest best people
going into teaching is like the most
important job that get paid twenty
thousand dollars a year right and
there's not going to get that if you're
painting those kind of you know it's
really kind of obvious we apply that in
in every other kind of area you kind of
know that you if you pay more you get
something better generally and I think
that that is a huge part of it it's
actually you know trying to get the best
people and the countries that have done
really well I think that um Finland is a
good example from I know I'm you know I
spent quite a lot of time this when I
was in the government Finland is a place
where it is the cultural thing if you if
you know really admire an esteemed thing
to do and well rewarded is to go and be
a teacher it's like one of the best
things you can do and that's true I
think of a lot of the Scandinavian
countries and they have better results
as a you know thanks to that so you've
got to just get the best people to go
into teaching that's really important in
this country the prohibitive cost of
higher education is shocking when you
start thinking about how much money it
costs to go to college how much money it
cost to get a degree and you accumulate
student loans that are almost
insurmountable how many people get out
of college in this country it's amazing
that the the figures are just
unbelievable
they are so under debt yeah just
stunningly in debt like I have a friend
who is in his 50s and just paid off his
his fifties yes well just paid off from
medical school this is a fucking
insurmountable debt
insurmountable debt forever yeah just
slowly but surely
chipping away at hundreds of thousands
of dollars in educational debt it's
really amazing I mean I one of the
things I'm doing right now is teaching
at Stanford a little bit and um and it's
just there's a kind of good pointer
which is that it seems to me that their
students are so much more hardworking
and motivated than the ones that well
certainly than I was not see diversity
but you know it's all free when we did
it in the UK and here it's not anymore
but it was when I was a college and here
when they're paying so much where their
parents are paying so much they take it
really seriously and that's great but
the the amounts of money involved are
just staggering really unbelievable
especially when you get to law school or
medical school or you know any really
expensive school like Stanford you know
that's a very prestigious school it's
gonna must be ridiculous I mean how much
does a kid have to pay a year to go
don't know because they have a lot of
they do they do a lot of great work to
kind of make it possible for kids
without the money to go so they do a lot
of grants and scholarships and I don't
know how that all works out well that's
it's it's it's a but it's a huge amount
yeah that that's nice and it's beautiful
to hear that they do something along
those lines and it's also beautifully
here that I believe it was MIT has
released all of its studies online you
can take off its classes online for free
essentially get an MIT education through
your home computer yeah very nice you
know it's very nice that that and you if
you think about the amount of access
that people have to higher education
today when it comes to online courses
when it comes to just papers if they
could read and download documentaries
they can watch different things that
they can read it's it's kind of
incredible yeah and it's actually really
powerful in not just think about America
but people in the in the States who
wouldn't have had that access but
actually all over the world it's this
that you know in Africa where you you're
just able to bring you know instruction
and the you know the the best people in
the world the best teachers to the most
remote village in Africa is completely
staggering yeah it is it is interesting
and I've always had a
fascination with the the power that
someone has in the position of being a
professor and especially a professor
with tenure where they have this you
know kind of this job that essentially
it's very difficult to get fired from I
mean you have to really do something
really fucked up yeah to lose your
position and because of that some of
them and I have had friends that have
had these professors some of them get
these incredibly arrogant attitudes and
they push their ideas as if their
doctrine right and they push their own
political ideas and their own ideology
oftentimes a very left-wing liberal
agenda to the point where it just
infuriates certain parents and
infuriates people who disagree with
these ideas who gets silenced because
you know it's the professor's word and
that is it in my class this is how I
feel it's not education I mean the you
know to me the whole point is you should
be equipping the students to think for
themselves and to and to kind of come to
their own point of view but give them
the tools that they can do that with and
and and go out and then use that
knowledge and ability to do great things
in the world not to kind of tell them
your point of view well you can tell
them your point of view but make clear
that it is your point of view and there
are other points of view and it's up to
them to decide what they think yeah but
that lack of that humility is oftentimes
lacking when you have a person that has
absolute power that's right there
there's no kind of accountability there
because it's just you know they don't
have to deliver anything that is like
one of the common complaints right about
yeah that was amazing thing though I
loved this speech that Mike Bloomberg
gave the other I think it was last week
did you see this you were no Harvard and
he gave her come over the commencement
speech I think to Harvard where he
really attacked him on this point and
said that they had this kind of liberal
bias in there in the faculty there that
was just really bad and the opposite
yeah and he had this great piece of data
which was that if you look at its going
for her to campaign finance if you look
at the campaign finance records because
they're you know everyone's donations
are reported and when you when you make
a political donation you have to say
what your occupation is
so you know it's quite easy to to look
at now types of professions or whatever
and where their money goes and he got
this piece of data which was that if you
look at the political donations of Ivy
League faculty and staff and you look at
where the money went in the last
election the figure for how much went to
Obama was 96 percent so it's like this
total liberal dominance and he said that
is just not healthy that is not what a
university is supposed to be the problem
is the alternative was far more
offensive if it went to John McCain and
Sarah Palin that 4% is the problem yeah
but believe it or not in this country
I mean Obama's I'm not a fan of what
this administration has become
especially when it can turn when it can
it deals with freedom of the press when
it deals with whistleblowers when it
deals with spying on Americans like all
the revelation that we found out about
the lack of privacy that people have I'm
not a fan of that at all but god damn
having Sarah Palin is a vice president
of fuckin United States would have been
disastrous having an old man who's
playing poker whether talking about
going to war with Syria he was literally
sitting on his knee bone playing poker
you know I mean what the fuck that was
the president that that was the vice
president those two dummies I mean
that's a disaster that's a fuckin
goddamn disaster so of course the most
educated amongst them went for the
lesser of two evils being Obama being a
guy who was a very articulate and
intelligent guy who's a whore I mean
essentially that's what Obama is what he
is is a guy who's very intelligent
articulate guy who had these ideas and
promoted this ideology got into office
and did essentially exactly the what
Bush did I mean in worse when it comes
to whistleblowers II stuff yeah yeah and
but you know all the things that we're
gonna do we're gonna close down
Guantanamo Bay we're gonna get out of
Afghanistan it turns out most of it was
bullshit most of it I mean when you talk
to people that are better journalists
this country has a horrible record
in this administration has a horrible
record on freedom of the press a
horrible record on on punishing
whistleblowers and it's the the the lack
of the lack of respect for for
journalism and freedom of the press is
very disturbing to people because what
what is journalism truly well what it
truly is is you're exposing reality what
a true journalist is doing is exposing
ality when you punish people for doing
that when you punish people for blowing
the whistle on with essentially
unconstitutional activities like the NSA
spying on every single fucking person on
the planet I mean that's
unconstitutional when you record
everyone's phone call that's not what we
want and when the government supports
things like that I mean how how is this
the same guy that was like hope and
change how is this the same guy well
he's the same guy because the people
that fucking got him in the office or
the same people that got bushing off
it's the same goddamn influences and
things like crowd packed things that
you're trying to do would expose that
for folks yeah I mean that's the idea
we're trying to be and you know it's
really important that we're you know
please you know we're kind of
nonpartisan so while we've got a strong
point of view about the system generally
and how we can improve it you know we
don't really it's very important we
don't have a point of view as a company
about individual issues but I think that
we do really care about changing the
system and I think that one of the one
of the things about the press that sort
of happens and I've seen this on kind of
both sides of it is that if you there
tends to be this kind of coziness that
develops with a lot with a lot of the
press Oh
particularly the traditional press where
you know they want to have access to the
politicians and the politicians want to
get their message out and it just gets
quite kind of cozy and so that whole
roll of investigation and exposing
things kind of sometimes takes a
backseat to having a good relationship
so that you can get your message out in
there and they get access and I think
that that's one of the things again
that's really helpful II being changed
by technology like you were saying which
is that you've got people who are able
to get you know to do that job of
Investigation without having to be
of some cozy group around the politician
yeah a lot of softballs and everything
from the politicians point of view their
point of view and it's you know there's
a lot of truth is that they're trying to
do stuff it's really really hard you
know trying to deal with some of these
problems it's difficult there's
incredible expectations you get shit for
what you know just trying you're totally
under scrutiny your life is under
scrutiny it's a really really hard job
and they feel that the increasingly the
media and the press are just interested
in the trivial aspects of it and who's
up and who's down and they're not really
interested in kind of exposing the
complexity of some of these issues so
that that's how the politicians see it
and then on the other side and that
that's why they end up trying to you
know have a relationship that enables
them to in their in their you know the
way they see it to explain what they're
trying to do a bit better
so that they so people kind of give them
a fair a hearing so that's why that all
happens and you know there's a lot of
there's a lot of truth to that to be
honest it is difficult what they're
trying to do whatever whatever your
liberal Democrat or a conservative
report does makes no difference it's
difficult governing is difficult it's
complicated the problems are complicated
everyone's got their point of view
you're kind of being screamed out and
yelled out at the whole time and it's
hard now look they choose to go into it
so we cannot feel sorry for them you
know they made that choice like you say
they have that kind of I gonna be the
leader and I'm going to go there and
sort things out so it's the choice that
they made but it is difficult and that's
why they want to you know try and can't
control the message I think because they
feel that a lot of the time they don't
get a fair hearing well that makes sense
in some ways but it doesn't make sense
from the point of view of the people
that are in the position of being a
journalist if you're in the position of
being a journalist fair enough you you
you're your whole position is to expose
inequality expose violations of the
Constitution and when you're you're in
one of those places where you whether
it's for CNN or Fox News or whoever
you're working for if you get to sit
down with Dick Cheney or you
to sit down with Obama you're already
muted you're already neutered you're
already silenced you don't get that
chance to pry
they're never gonna have Glenn Greenwald
sit down with Obama in an open Internet
forum that airs in real-time live they
would never agree to that they would
never agree to this weird actually cuz
it's a really different tradition in
England when you look at the way that
interview if anyone watches a TV
interview of a politician in England
it's so different to what you get here
they're really aggressive with them
really really really really aggressive
and and the kind of softball stuff is
actually kind of embarrassing for a
journalist to do that and there's a
different tradition well we used to have
that it's really it's really noticed
that they shot a few people parked some
cars on railroad tracks with families in
them and then people kind of stopped
doing that I think that guys like Glenn
Greenwald who lives in Brazil and gets
to sort of attack America from a
distance you know at least until they
find him I think what what guys like him
are doing with you know he was the one
who helped Edward Snowden release all of
his documents and yeah the these these
new players in this whole game these
Outsiders that don't have to cozy up
don't have to be a part of this this
nepotism that we're seeing with the big
ones I mean any anybody that's in any
sort of a large group Fox and CBS and
NBC you're a part of this wacky system
you're a part of the system that's not
gonna expose these things it's gonna let
these people get their message out
because if you don't you're not going to
get the big names if you don't get the
big names you're not gonna get the
ratings and then those big names you can
go to Fox those big names are gonna go
over to CNN they're gonna go somewhere
else and you're gonna lose this this
yeah that's exactly how that seems to
work here that's why I've noticed yeah
that is it it is it and in I believe
it's getting exposed and I believe it's
getting exposed in a way today that just
wasn't happening 20 years ago 20 years
ago you would just be frustrated and you
would just go off and you'd write a book
and everybody go oh he's a nutter look
at the fucking crazy book that guy wrote
and you know some people would read the
book and say
it was amazing and other people would
just ignore it and new revelations would
take place along the way and whatever it
happened would be forgotten and then the
politician would get out of office and I
think George Bush is the last guy to
sort of skate away like that and you
know now he sits around and paints weird
pictures and slowly goes insane have you
seen the things he's doing he's slowly
going insane
I mean he's painting pictures and he's
locked in this world of he's essentially
in a prison on a ranch I mean that's
what he is he's constantly circled by
Secret Service agents he's hated all
over the world he's at least indirectly
responsible for over a million deaths
this one guy they're pinning it on him
and Dick Cheney and his administration
and this sort of pyramid of events and
this guy feels that shit and he's just
sort of wandering around on his fucking
ranch painting himself staring at
himself in a bathroom mirror I mean it's
really really weird stuff and I think
he's probably going to be the last guy
that ever skates off into the sunset
with this this this knowledge I think
Obama is gonna be held accountable for a
lot more than Bush ever was and I think
whoever's next is truly fucked
whether it's Jeb Bush or whether it's
whatever you know new Democrat they try
to sneak into I don't know the Hillary
Clinton I don't know what they're trying
in 2016 and we won't know for a while
because they have to vet out everyone's
fucked up vices and skeletons in their
closets and in this day and age it's
almost terrible I think by the way cuz
that's one of the reasons that so many
people get put off yes from you know
because a lot of the complaints you hear
about politics as well we just get the
same kind of people they're all kind of
you know very kind of similar to each
other and there's a particular type of
person that goes into it and actually a
lot of people who I think could make a
really good contribution don't do it
exactly for that reason they just don't
want to live under that kind of
spotlight but well and can't there's
just normal human beings and they've got
stuff that you know they had fun right
because I had fun in their life it means
that people that have had fun you know I
mean you can't you've one gay affair
when you're 20 years old with a guy for
a couple of weeks and you're fuck for
the rest you know that guy's out there
waiting to talk shit about you if you
run from
you know there's one time you did a
little bit of heroin when you were on
the road with a bunch of your buddies
you you you know we were at you're in
college tried heroin oh those fucking
college buddies ready to write a book
about you doing heroin I mean there's a
it's a weird time when it comes to
exposing people's past and this idea of
this perfect person from the cradle to
the grave running for president is
preposterous if you don't want that
person that person if they've never made
any mistakes that means they never taken
any chances they haven't taken any
chances they haven't lived and I'm not
talking about mistakes like victimizing
people horrible things that are
completely unconscionable that you
wouldn't do and I wouldn't do murder and
robbery and kidnapping all sorts of
terrible things that are just massive
you know ethical errors that just
shouldn't be ever tolerated from a
person's character just little things
like here's a perfect example there's a
woman who's running for mayor right now
in Mississippi and apparently when she
was younger she was a prostitute and it
this is a it's a big story that you know
folks are trying to figure out like what
is is that okay like how do we how do we
handle this like what what do you do
about a person who had made mistakes
when they were younger look what is what
is the answer to this and no one really
knows they don't really have the answer
to that they're trying to figure out
like when what is happening in that is
it is it I'm playing against Tara was
yes for sure she's in Mississippi and
she revealed it herself she revealed
that she was a former prostitute and she
was a prostitute like I believe it was
30 years ago and she met her husband
while he was a John and he was one of
her clients and she married him and she
hasn't been a prostitute since and now
she's running for mayor and it's it's
it's it's quite fascinating I think it's
interesting and I think in a lot of ways
you could see that and think this person
is actually really well qualified to be
in office because obviously you know
going through those sorts of experiences
will give you a sense of empathy for you
know the tough lives that some people
have
this and the circumstances that end up
putting them in that situation and it
probably makes you better not worse well
not only that what she did was totally
legal as well she was in a legal brothel
in Nevada and it was over 30 years ago
and she hasn't been there since and the
idea that this person is not allowed to
make errors and that she wouldn't have
developed like a lot of empathy and
character and yes she wouldn't happen
that's right yeah I'm a more balanced
perspective than a person who's grown up
in a very privileged household with very
rich wealthy connected people and then
they got him to an Ivy League school and
then I became a member of skull and
crossbones and instead of that well you
have person who's who was 14 and was
pregnant with a child and had to take
care of her child and her parents died
yeah and she had was forced into a
situation where she had to earn a living
and she didn't have a lot of options and
this was one of her options that she
chose and how could you judge someone
who's a teenager that makes those
choices I mean I don't think he can and
I think this person I mean good for her
that she stepped up and totally great
well I think it's great and again it's
kind of interesting that some types of
early childhood of adversity are kind of
okay mm-hmm for your political resume
yeah I came from a poor family and but
broken home where Bill Clinton had a and
and it's okay that kind of difficulty is
acceptable but then there's this other
category which attacks just as character
fortrex and drugs in whatever they're
just as character forming potentially
but not acceptable yeah the sex ones the
wackiest whatever because it's totally
legal like save this woman had you know
X amount of clients per month if she
just fucked a bunch of guys you know
everybody be like gosh she was young she
was young she was getting wacky but
fucking a bunch of guys for money is a
problem but if she just massaged guys no
problem I mean if she gave them pleasure
by rubbing their bodies by rubbing your
shoulders and backs no one would have an
issue with it but by doing something to
their
by the way it was one of the guys one of
the clients running for office and you
know it's okay to be a client that's
fine sure you know something you'd be
proud of but if that was kind of exposed
or whatever that won't be a berry sure
even ten years ago forget about thirty
years ago ten years ago the guy went to
a prostitute said listen I was horny I
didn't have any options I had a few
bucks I paid someone to touch my penis
people would go yeah exactly
sexist kind of way of thinking about sex
should sex should be legal to sell
that's what I think I absolutely 100%
believed that prostitution should be
legal I wouldn't want my daughters to do
it I wouldn't want my friends to do it I
wouldn't want loved ones to do it but I
wouldn't want them to work at Wendy's
either I wouldn't want them to work on
the the people that you see on the
highway picking up dirt or picking up
garbage by the side of the road I
wouldn't want them to be pouring asphalt
in the hot summer I wouldn't want
anybody to work a difficult job I think
emotionally it's got to be incredibly
difficult to have sex with someone that
you don't want to have sex with but I
don't think it should be illegal if it's
legal to have sex with people how the
fuck can it be legal or illegal to pay
to have sex with people or have someone
pay you to have sex with you it seems
ridiculous it seems just as ridiculous
as making massage illegal yeah I don't
know I I don't know I honestly haven't
thought about it enough one of the
things that I definitely feel strongly
about is if we're gonna make that kind
of decision the the sex trade the sex
trafficking trade needs to be you know
one of the ways you think about it
because that is just so evil and disgust
completely you've all completely
disgusted and whatever decision you make
has to make that better not worse right
and I don't know I haven't really
thought it through enough that's a very
good point that's a very good point I
think there would probably far less
demand for sex trafficking for illegal
sex trafficking if prostitution was
legal if adults could make that decision
if some woman you know was in a
situation which was like you know I'm
reasonably sexually attractive and I
make X amount of money per month doing
this I can make that same amount in a
day having sex with people okay I'll
just do that you know if it's a woman's
choice to do so and someone
would have no problem with that choice
the real problem of course is
victimization is a real problem is
exploiting young people victimization
and objectifying women but does not
already take place and isn't part of
what objectifying women the part of this
issue is the it's very difficult for
some people to find sexual partners so
there's like this thing with this Elliot
whatever Elliot Rogers this crazy kid
that shot up everybody in Santa Barbara
the the nuttiest response that I've seen
to this the craziest most infuriating
response is by these people that believe
that if women weren't so stuck up this
guy wouldn't have gone on a rampage
because he would have been able to have
sex with more people would have been
able to get people to have sex with him
who's that's pickup artists and the
women these women hating fuckheads
there's there's a bunch of guys that
they're they operate under this this
guise of being for men's rights and you
know it's kind of funny because I didn't
even know there was like there's a thing
called an MRA it's a men's rights
advocate or activist and it's an insult
it from feminists I got called an MRA
once and I was like what the fuck does
that mean
so I I had a Google MRA men's right and
I thought it was ridiculous that Wow how
could you be a feminist but be making
fun of someone who's into men's rights
like shouldn't we all have rights I mean
shouldn't shouldn't here but then I
started looking into these men's rights
guys I go okay I see what's going on
here they're more ridiculous it's not
the kind of radical feminists are those
enough like because there's a there's
some campaigns that make some good
points yes that support yes and and I
agree with that 100% but there's they go
way further than that and they they go
into relationships and they go into the
way men are treated versus the way women
are treated people are treated in in bad
ways by bad people and in good ways by
good people but if you're a shithead
people are not going to like you and
just because you're a shithead and
people don't like you it doesn't mean
women are assholes it means you're
undesired
and one of the reasons why you're
probably undesirable is because you have
a terrible attitude about things and
this terrible attitude about things is
not gonna change you know it's it's not
going to change because women have sex
with you that's your attitude sucks
you're not a pleasant person there's a
lot of people have shit personalities
and they get involved in this men versus
women but it has nothing to do with men
versus women what kind of things do they
I mean the men's right what is that well
st. cooling for is there a you know
there's so much nonsense that's I don't
even really want to get into it because
some of it some of it is so fucking
stupid and I've been reading these
things over the last couple of days I'm
trying to erase him from my memory
because some of these poorly written
articles by these men are so stunningly
stupid like one of them was this guy was
talking about how he was around this 60
year old man in this 25 year old woman
who is his his incredibly hot wife and
that this 25 year old woman was
insulting this man and you know that
this is this this is what the anguish
this guy had a deal with and how
horrible it is and this is what men have
to deal with I was like that might be
one of the dumbest fucking arguments
I've ever heard in my life
first of all what if it was a 25 year
old man and a 60 year old woman that was
this old wretched creature that this guy
was forced to fuck for money like would
you be on the man's side of the woman's
side then which which position would you
take there of course this woman is gonna
say shit he thinks this old man she's
not supposed to be fucking him she's
supposed to be having sex with a 25 year
old man or a 35 year old man or someone
reasonably close to her age where there
would be naturally sexually attracted to
each other what you're dealing with is a
bizarre situation where someone has sort
of circumvented the system by acquiring
money yeah and by yes it's exactly and
by acquiring money
this guy's figured out a way to get some
twenty-year-old hottie to marry him and
yeah she doesn't like it so she
complains and I'm I'm reading this and
I'm like does this guy who the fuck is
this guy writing this article talking to
who are his friends like why how is that
an argument ya know yet III don't even
want to pull the article up I don't want
to reference it I don't want it to
fairness but it's just what you're
dealing with with these men
is a bunch of nitpicky shitheads with
terrible personalities that are
complaining about men getting a bad rap
in this world if you do well in this
life you have an amazing chance as a man
of being sexually successful of having a
great life of not being persecuted of
not being raped of not being beat up by
your spouse I mean the the idea that men
don't have the better end of the deal is
unbelievably ridiculous when you look at
this Donald sterling guy this fucking
shithead that owns the Clippers he's 82
his girlfriend was in her 20s and this
this this possibility only exists for
men it doesn't exist for women there's
very few 82 year old women who have
attractive 20 year old boyfriends it
just doesn't exist this very to very few
watch what Madonna does do you know how
what what kind of a monster like a lot
of young men would feel like Madonna was
if Madonna was trying to fuck them
they're like it's repulsive to men and
an idea of a powerful attractive man
who's in his 50s dating a 20 year old
woman is not alien at all but the idea
of a powerful woman in ER was Madonna in
her 60s how old is she
I think she's 50s but I think that's
what's really to be honest really cool
about what she's doing there which is
like she's just really constantly
challenging those kind of stairs but is
she well I think so by the way I don't
know I think that she's certainly I
think she's got a pretty intelligent
point of view on some of these these
sort of gender issues because she she
really you know I mean and and I think
the fact that people aren't
uncomfortable is kind of making the
point that we're agreeing about which is
that this is not how it's supposed to be
yeah well she's she doesn't even
consider herself a feminist she
considers herself a humanist which I
agree with wholeheartedly and this idea
of men's rights what's really offensive
about it is that you know they're
concentrating entirely on the ideas in
the prop
at men face when I think the only ideas
and promises problems at men face the
only ones are child custody and getting
robbed in divorces other than that shut
the fuck up yeah I really do believe
that I think those are the only two
issues other than that please shut the
fuck up because when I hear about a guy
at planing that a 20 year old wife is
mean to a 60 year old rich man oh poor
baby
this is what you do go out and get more
20 year old wives okay you're fucking
rich of shit and you're old are you
gonna live forever dummy you'll go get
some prostitutes go do it be nice to
them give them cars you know what do
what donald sterling's did he got that
girl like five Rolls Royces and Bentleys
and Ferraris and shit and it still
didn't work out dad you know why it
didn't work out she didn't wanna fuck
him they don't want to fuck you you're
80 okay that is just the law of the land
that's the way life works this is the
natural balance of nature and you know
you you've you've figured out a way to
inject influence and power and money and
sort of pervert this whole system down
and when you complain about this
perversion not working out in your favor
and this is why we need men's rights
let's go oh fucking christ you whiny
bitches you guys aren't men
you guys are babies I didn't I think
it's just unbelievable that they're even
tonight they're babies they're babies
say that's the babies and they're not
recognizing the issues that women do
have to deal with women have to deal
with worrying about groups of men women
have to deal with worrying about if I
walk into a parking lot okay and it's at
night and I see a woman in that parking
lot I am not worried about that woman
but if I was a woman and I walked to a
parking lot and I'm walking to my car
and I see a man and that man is looking
me in the eye I have to wonder what kind
of a man that is I have to think about
that I have to think about that as a man
but as a woman you really have to think
about that it's very rare that a man
gets robbed by a woman in a parking lot
of course it can happen especially if
the woman is a weapon of course if
you're in Russia she might rape you you
know there's this is some stories about
Russian women you know there's some
story about she helps a man captive and
force-fed him viagra and fuck them for
30 days and that's Russians they're
crazy some russian chick might actually
do that to you but for the
most part it's a non-issue or
statistically speaking it's a very very
very small percentage of the population
as to worry about this for women the
amount of women that get sexually
assaulted the amount of women especially
like in college it's crazy and college
is you know something like more than one
out of ten women get sexually assaulted
in college I don't know the exact
numbers are read varying reports but
even 10% it's fucking crazy big problem
I agree it's a big problem if you're a
woman because men are aggressive we're
aggressive we're filled with
testosterone and we need to come it's a
real problem every day our balls are
building up more more sperm and if
you're a shithead and if you were raised
improperly and you don't have respect
for women or the opposite sex or anyone
in general other than yourself itself we
have problems we have problems with that
so yeah we need accountability as men
but it would also help if there was
places where people could relieve
themselves it also helped if there was a
handjob place on every corner I mean god
damn cooling it why not there's a
massage place in every corner you drive
down the street in LA if you drive good
a Ventura Boulevard drive down the
street if your back is bothering you you
can find a massage place one a mile
you'll see a neon light Thai massage
Swedish massage this massage you can go
in and get your neck rubbed what can you
get your balls rubbed why can't you why
not because we're crazy because we have
these weird ideas about sex we have
these weird ideas about what is evil and
it's based on the Puritan values of this
country was founded on which are founded
by religious nuts who were we're so
kooky that they got in boats to escape
persecution and travel across a fucking
ocean I mean that that the echoes of
this ignorance is still propelling us
today yeah I think I don't know I think
that with all that stuff to think I've
got a lot of sympathy but I just keep
coming back to this thing about well
what is the if you know what is it are
you in gonna set up a situation where
it's not really a choice that there's
some kind of economic or other power
that's that means that or pressure that
means that even though you kind of treat
it like a market place where everyone's
freely entering into it is that really
gonna be the case I think that's the
question I think
totally right I don't know and I'm not
suggesting by the way the prostitution
is gonna stop rape you know what what
I'm suggesting is that there are real
issues with with human sexuality and
there's real issues with making things
illegal that shouldn't be illegal
whether it's drug use or whether it's
sexuality I think there's real issues in
suppression and I think when you
suppress people from doing things
whether it's suppressing them from using
marijuana suppressing them from drinking
suppressing them from wearing certain
clothes suppressing women from driving
when you suppress human beings from
things that are illogical and I find it
illogical that sex is illegal to sell
and I'm not saying I want to go to
prostitutes I don't I don't but I think
they should be legal I really do I think
it's nonsense
I think we live in this weird world
where if something is legal to do for
free how is it possible that it's
illegal to do for money it doesn't make
any sense I see your point of view and I
agree with it wholeheartedly that you do
have to worry about people being sold
into this that you have to worry about
them being somehow or another
compromised by this this overwhelming
need for you know the financial revenue
that can be generated from sex and that
people could be exploited and that could
it be a real issue with the
objectification of women it could change
the cultural attitudes about things but
if you go to countries where it is legal
that prostitution I was just gonna say I
can holliman's right yeah yeah they find
lower instances of AIDS lower instances
of like Jim Jeffries is a buddy of mine
it was a stand-up comedian from
Australia in Australia brothels are
legal and he talks about how divorce
rates are way lower in places where
brothels are legal because the men don't
need to cheat on their wives like some
men just give up they can't they can't
get sex with their wife and he goes it's
like I'm fucking out of here and they
get divorced and they go to this huge
stressful situation just go to a brothel
you know and Jim was joking around about
how his his mom and his dad were
fighting and his mom was like and he
goes to the brothel every night I don't
know if you know that or every Wednesday
night he goes know every Wednesday
that was that was the punchline and I I
don't think there's anything wrong with
that
it's whether or not people being
exploited and that becomes the problem
but that becomes the problem with
everything I mean if people being
exploited into labor if children are
being forced to work in factories at
young ages which they are in other
countries and typically other countries
that provide us with these these goods
that we so want cellphones laptops all
these different I mean how many children
every year scraping minerals out of the
mountains that they need to use to make
electronics there's a lot of them and
this is exploitation this is
exploitation that we benefit from and I
think that we have to address all forms
of that but we also have to address
ridiculous laws that don't make any
sense and anytime you try to control
people any time do you try to suppress
people's ability to express themselves
in any way if you don't like it you know
whether it's walking topless down the
street you can do it if you're a man you
can't do it if you're a woman that's
what they're dealing with in New York
City now in New York City you're allowed
to be topless as one like the there's
some woman who calls herself the fucking
naked cowgirl and she's getting sued by
the naked cowboy because the naked
Cowboys a guy who he wears underwear and
he plays guitar with a cowboy hat on and
he's like this sort of tourist
attraction in New York well women are
allowed to be topless now as well in a
lot of places because like the idea is
well why is a man allowed to have no
shirt on but a woman has to have it's
because you're saying that breasts are
much more sexual they know when they're
on a woman and that they need to be they
need to be covered and that sort of
develops a sort of inequality in the law
that a woman is you know a women is
oppressed or a woman is subject to laws
that a man is not and that seems to be
very difficult to pass so you know you
deal with some situation where women
aren't allowed to be topless and they
should be
how many guys get arrested for being
gigolos is it zero I mean what was the
last time a guy got arrested for fucking
a woman because she paid him to has it
ever even happened but women get
arrested for prostitution all the
goddamn time you know I totally agree
with that I mean that is they rather
than the people using them yeah it's
just totally I agree with
I think that when they saw you're right
that there are so many kind of weird
things about sex and and and how that
kind of plays out when you think about
sort of social issues and stuff like
that and I think one of the biggest
things that's going on is the way that
kind of that kind of this sort of
sexualization of you know like public
space and the kind of world around us is
like really influencing more more
children I think that they're kind of
getting younger and younger that kids
are being exposed to kind of sexualized
stuff there is a real problem because
it's changing their expectation and what
sex is and there's lots of studies now
showing how that you know like kids
sexual behavior is really different you
know boys sort of viewing porn and
violent porn at much earlier age
thinking that that's how you behave
treating women really badly women
thinking themselves as sexual objects
more I think there's a lot of kind of
quite deep problems that are coming out
and we'll see in the years ahead from
the way that that is just you know like
sexual images and content is just
becoming much more widely available for
younger kids that's a really good point
because it's so prevalent and it's so
uniquely new the ability to download
porn on a cell phone so essentially if
your child is 12 and they have an iPhone
you send them off to school they're
watching people fuck yeah I mean they're
gonna there's no way you're gonna stop
them if that phone has Internet data if
it has internet access those kids are
gonna look at images if they have
somehow or another some access to an
iPad or a laptop or something is
connected to Wi-Fi if it's not blocked
through some sort of a complicated
filter that they probably know how to
dismantle better than you do they're
gonna see sex they're gonna see sex in a
way that we never saw sex you know I
have this joke in my act that is a true
story about when I was 11 years old me
and a couple of my friends found a
magazine in the woods that was a foot
fetish magazine and we it took us like a
few minutes to realize what was going on
we were looking at this magazine cuz it
was really confusing you thought it was
like as a podiatry today no no we
thought it was a porn magazine or sure
obviously that was the intent that yeah
well we we were in the woods
and I don't know if you've ever found
pornographic magazine in the woods
fetish do you ever find I'm a hustler
yeah house in the woods in the woods
right yeah in the park in the look yeah
whatever but it's always like some poor
bastard who's hiding his urges it's a
classic it's a rite of passage you know
where we're going I think you know it's
very important everyone had that
experience International yeah cuz for me
it was in Florida and for you it was in
England right it's amazing right the
foot thing that is exactly unexpected so
what the point was that we found these
this bag that had these magazines in it
and we're going through this one
magazine and it took us like many pages
in - my friend goes dude this shit is
all just dicks and feet like that's
that's a turd we were and to this day I
laugh thinking about my friend saying
that and that we were stunned and
confused well we were just looking at a
magazine and we were 11 you know today
kids get to watch actual sex and
apparently the sexual activity of
children is changing like someone did
some study recently that showed this
massive increase in anal sex yeah
amongst children under 18 years of age
yeah it's really I think it's a really
big deal mm-hm I really do
and and it's there's sexual activities
changing it's the kind of relationship
between men and boys and girls you know
that's changing and they're kind of we
talked about it early in terms of you
know women's rights and men's rights and
I think that that you know their
expectations of how to behave yeah how
to treat women and woman's own sense or
young women their own sense of
themselves as primarily being about
their you know sexual sexual persona I
think that's all really a concern you
know it's actually setting back some of
the kind of progress that's been made in
terms of women women's equality I I
agree but I think hopefully at least
because I'm the eternal optimist I think
it's temporary and I think that
ultimately it's all going to even out
because I think that what people are
doing is they're look
at these things like if women are
engaging in these sexual activities at a
much earlier age they're looking at it's
like this is something that they need to
do to become more attractive to men
because this is what they've seen
they've seen this my thought on all of
this is that we're gonna reach a point
within our lifetimes probably within the
next few decades where we're going to be
able to read each other's minds I think
I think it's inevitable you know over
your house actually was the first time I
ever tried Google glass right and we
were putting this thing on and scanning
it and you know and and googling things
and looking at navigation screens in
front of my eye thinking man shit's
gonna get really fucking weird soon yeah
I think we're gonna be able to read each
other's minds I think this this whole
dance that we do do you like me do I
like you you know who I'm gonna play
hard-to-get I'm gonna fucking do this
I'm gonna be the girl that takes it in
the ass and all the boys gonna like me
you know I think all that nonsense I
think it's gonna it's going to become
far more complex the human interactions
because I'm gonna become far more
complex because our concept of of
Secrets is going to go out the window
it's really interesting actually I don't
think it's gonna exist anymore I think
if you look at the trend what is the
trend the trend is that information is
easier to access now than ever before
and it becomes easier to access and
easier to access to the point where you
can ask your phone questions with your
voice you press a button you know who is
Steve Hilton but it's Steve Hilton
there's a ball it gives you the
information but that's just one step and
it's not going to stop there it's not
halting it's exponentially increasing so
what is what's the trend the trend is
dissolving boundaries between people and
information that information includes
information in your own mind that
information includes there's going to be
a much more effective interface than
looking at a screen and asking a screen
a question the interface is going to be
somehow another a neural implant
something that you inject into someone's
body like nanobots it's good there's
gonna be some weird sort of an interface
and when that happens they're gonna come
up with a better one a year later it's
gonna be a more invasive one a more and
then we're gonna have to come to some
sort of an agreement where we we're
gonna say hey listen
in order for human the human race to
established an enlightened perspective
we're all going to have to look into
each other's heads we're all gonna have
to be able to read each other's minds
and find out how we think and feel and
so there'll be no more mystery in this
world there'll be no more romance novels
there'll be no more there's nothing to
be unnecesarry there's not going to be
any romance there's going to be this
weird hive mind thing going on and it's
gonna happen within a hundred years hmm
and I think that's incredibly
interesting and the the way that that
will change so many things of people
just you know if that comes to pass and
people can just know what the other
person thinking think about what it used
to be like before language is
established people used to grunt and
point and kind of try to figure out what
the other person wanted and we were
essentially monkey people what did we do
we figured something out we got to this
point and now you compare your life
today to that point like I I was in a
conversation with a friend and we have
another friend that is like he's
becoming a prepper you know like he's
fucking setting up his house for solar
water and collecting rainwater or solar
solar power and connecting collecting
rainwater and growing his own fruits and
vegetables and doing so in this fear
that society was going to collapse and
my friend Jimmy was like if society
collapses you don't want to live man
like you don't want to be that one
fucking guy that's got all the food and
you're you know standing on your porch
or the rifle and you're all taking turns
waiting for the zombies to come over the
hill
you know sounding the horns and alerting
the people that the barbarians have
arrived you don't want to do that and
you don't want to go back to those days
you just don't and I think that we we
don't want to go back to the days of no
language and we're not gonna want to go
back to the days of Secrets we're not
gonna want to once once the no secret
thing happens and people just get this
kind of understanding of what it is to
be a human being you know it's universal
yeah it reminds me that there's this
some work going on at Stanford they have
a virtual reality lab and they're
looking at how virtual reality could
change the way people think about other
people about their issues you know
there's there's one experiment they're
doing where
probably I'm trying to get it right
where they I think they put you as like
in a forest situation you think you're
in a forest and they and then they
measure or some nature some example of
nature and then they see how you know
they really give you a deep experience
of that through virtual reality and then
they look at your behavior in the next
week after that to see if you're more
conscious of that you recycle more you
change your behavior because of this
this completely false experience you've
had to give you this virtual reality
experience and and that's what they were
searching in all sorts of other ways and
I think it's just showing that it does
Wow and you can actually influence
someone's behavior by giving them this
sense of another world
yeah and that's again just in its
infancy you know the the virtual reality
stuff is just getting going and and I
just think it's interesting all these
things how they will affect so many
aspects of how we relate to each other
and think about these issues that the
moment had just so kind of superficially
dealt with it's gonna get really
squirrelly when that artificial reality
is indistinguishable from the reality
that we're experiencing right now
because that's coming to you know that's
what the whole simulation theory is is
based upon you know this idea that one
day we're gonna get to a point where you
can't tell whether or not we live in a
computer or we live in the material
carbon-based flesh world and if that's
the case how do we know that we haven't
already gotten to that point how do we
know that we're not in a computer right
now and we're thinking that we're
experiencing this reality but it's not
it's not really happening it's we're
just a part of a program and that it's
so good that you just you can't you
think you really are Steve Hilton you're
not Steve Hillman you see you know the
truth shall set out the thing is that
when you this kind of gets to a point
where I just kind of I can't handle it
anymore my brain cannot literally cope
with thinking about some of this stuff I
remember a friend of mine repeatedly
trying to explain to me like quantum
physics and quantum things and I just
literally can't understand it yeah the
quantum stuff is hard really hard I have
a had this notion of you know alternate
realities and things going on at the
same time and if I
just can't get around it it's almost
impossible to do it's it's really like
when we start getting into quantum stuff
I don't anything they understand it I
mean they they understand it in terms of
these theoretical concepts but it's so
abstract in a lot of ways when you're
dealing with things like when they start
talking about subatomic particles and
they start talking about the things that
they actually do know like the things
that you actually can measure you can
observe yeah yeah
like particles in superposition meaning
they're in movement and still at the
same time when they're talking about
things blinking in and out of existence
they go away and they don't know where
they went and then they come back with
just that alone the measurable stuff is
so crazy that the lowest point not the
lowest but the smallest measurable point
of reality which is this these quantum
ideas the world is made of magic things
appear and disappear things are still on
there moving at the same time they're
here and they're there they're in two
different places at the same time and
they can take particles and they can
move them across the world and when they
interact with each other they interact
with each other faster than you can
count faster than you can measure they
interact with each other it like
instantaneously faster than the in any
kind of communication that we could have
between these particles given the amount
of distances in between them the speed
of light the speed of sound they they're
instantaneously interacting with each
other now they're figuring out a way how
to send particles through time they're
figuring out ways to send particles
through time to actually time travel
with particles and so with all this
stuff that they're doing right now is
just one step on this never-ending quest
for technological innovation
there's never-ending quest where people
are trying to satisfy their curiosity
they're not gonna stop they're never
gonna stop if we don't get hit by an
asteroid if we don't get I think that's
right then that's you know and you get
all these good things coming from that
yeah along the way I mean I just I don't
understand it but eventually it leads to
things that we all can use and and deal
with and a lot of those things are
really good I don't think I think one
thing I would say about all this stuff
is that generally speaking we are not
critical enough
of the technological advances I think
that a lot of them are obviously you
know improvements you know if you think
about just technology going back many
years you know the way that I don't know
like labor-saving devices in the home
completely sort of freed women from the
drudgery in the horrific kind of washing
machine all that stuff that was just
kind of such a terrible experience and
that's all a fan that sort of simple
example of technology being really
transformational in a positive way and I
think generally that's probably true of
Technology it's usually an improvement
but I do think that we have this kind of
attitude of assuming it's good and just
and not really questioning it do we
really want that right I think that
doesn't happen enough often the answer
will be yeah we do that's great
fantastic bring it on but I don't think
we stop enough to ask the question and I
think there's the scientist and the
people doing this stuff they don't
really think about that they want to do
it because they can and it says you
exactly as you said it's this curiosity
like let's let's just go further because
that's a human instinct it's like when
Oppenheimer built the nuclear bomb I
mean the should that really have been
done well the you know the the argument
the intelligent argument is if they
didn't do it the Nazis would have done
it so yes it's important that the Allied
forces developed at first but I think
that that's the the job of I think
there's all sorts of roles that are
played in a society and there's the the
innovator and there's the scientist
there's the people that are constantly
pushing the boundaries of technology and
then there's the the social engineers
who step back and go okay let's look at
the repercussions of this and how do we
mitigate the the negative aspects of it
how do we figure out how to integrate
these ideas into society and use them to
enhance society and what is being done
to sort of manage that and what is being
done to to minimize the negative impact
yeah that is a good way of putting it
that different functions yeah yeah
there's just a constant there's no one
thing that's awesome there's things that
are awesome and then there's
repercussions that are like yeah but
then there's this well there's that but
then there's one that's just part of it
that we're not really comfortable with
and there's this sort of dance that we
do as we build society and as society
continues to
and expand and our ability to do things
changes our ability to access
information our ability to accomplish
goals our ability to transmit ideas is
so much quicker and faster and there's
these repercussions to that that we're
before this this day and age were really
unexplored because they weren't
available so we don't really know the
long-term repercussions of children
being able to access porn because they
really didn't have it yes it's new we
never asked don't know what that leads
to yeah weird world it's a weird world
Steve Hilton's strange times is a good
good summary that's why you tooth and
claw resisted I do and this is
definitely going back in the day but the
way I agree to like run away
I need a fun then they can get hold of
me yeah that's it that's it and then you
could shut it off occasionally just give
it to very few people you have to have a
burner phone you have to have a phone
the gift of people that could possibly
be annoying so that any given time fell
into the ocean you'd be like yeah
whatever with that fucking phone you
know and then have a phone you only give
to your family and your close friends
yeah but one of the things that really
puts me if I just can't there's
something about my kind of useless sort
of fat stubby finger just hopeless with
touchscreens mmm that's the all you can
get is touchscreen when we're in Hawaii
you're through your fucking iPod at your
computer too fucked up the screen you
were so frustrated
Steve got you know I have a regular iPod
with the click wheel the wheel I like
that I like that I like that's right
yeah I like that but the the new ones
the iPod Touches yes I don't I don't
find them as they're not as easy to use
when I'm at the gym I find them to be
frustrating you know but you you got
ahold of one of those because you
couldn't get your regular iPod you got
so mad he threw that you're fucking that
the mark is that reminds me of my techno
rage every single day but you're not a
rageful guy which is so crazy because
you're normally the last person I would
expect to get violent and throw
something I get crazy but it was an iPod
that did it to you I know it was weird
but I do with technology as people who
know me and work with me will testify be
very Unabomber ask
oh gosh okay there's a great documentary
on the Unabomber and how he became who
he is I don't want to get into it
because I've talked about on the show
before but it's called the net and it's
a I think it's German I forget
what country but it's available with
subtitles but basically he was a part of
the LSD studies at Harvard they cooked
his brain that's Ted Kaczynski Ted
cognise mm-hmm yeah okay yeah and he was
turned in by his own brother
his own brother recognized the writing
in the manifesto and he realized that
his brother had gone insane is like I
think this is probably my brother that's
doing this Wow cuz I wasn't here them
but that was it so I don't have a sense
of it being God I know that know what
happened but I don't get a sense of what
a big deal it was it was scary for a lot
of people in America when that happened
what was scary for a lot of people also
because of who he was attacking that he
was attacking people that were
technological innovators he was
attacking people that were involved in a
distribution of technology and he
believed that and in a lot of ways
correctly believed that there was
something going on right now where
people were creating technology and this
technology would eventually do bad
things to the human race and to the
biological existence that we currently
exist in you know this this sort of like
established way of being and living that
we consider being you know inherent to
being a human being and he felt like
these people were the enemies of
humanity because they were fostering
technology and crazy I didn't really
know that that was what was behind all
that yeah he just wait he went too far
ahead he got wacky instead of living in
the moment and dealing with the moment
he just saw this this attack by the
biological humans or on the biological
humans by technology which essentially I
kind of see his point in a way I don't
see his point as far as like a tacking
people that are creating technology but
if you really extrapolate where we are
right now and where we're going this
symbiotic relationship that we have with
technology where people are afraid to
leave their phones behind the phones
will eventually become Google glass
Google glass will become an implant an
implant will become well you know Steve
you've got good news and bad news the
good news is you have
year to live okay the the bad news is
you have cancer the good news is we have
an artificial body that we have created
that we're going to put your body into
the bad news is it lasts forever so
we're gonna take or is it the good news
you know this is what it is is a new
world that we're living in where we're
going to have weird choices that never
existed before and a lot of the people
that are involved in Google
they hired Kurzweil yeah Ray Kurzweil
who is the proponent the number one
proponent of this sort of transcendental
moment where we become one with
computers where we become one either
with some sort of a computer interface
or we download our consciousness into an
artificial body or we figure out a way
to exist in some sort of a virtual
reality that is eternal and there's
that's a lot of people feel like that's
where things are going to go yeah a
solution is really not fiction you know
it's definitely happening yeah I thought
the that why I don't talk to to friend
of mine about this a quite a bit which
is if you think about I'm just
interested that there I got the
Unabomber that's an extreme example yeah
I wasn't I didn't realize that it was so
focused on technology but there isn't
really a people like it generally
speaking there wasn't really a movement
a sort of anti technology movement that
not certainly not that I'm aware of if
you think back to you know the exactly
when it was when you had this sort of
industrial revolution and the Luddites
you know smashing up machines that were
you know taking jobs away from people
and then their view really kind of
damaging society that was a it's kind of
quite a big movement yeah okay didn't
get anywhere and it you know history
sort of made them irrelevant but there
was a movement with a name and an
organization that did stuff what are
they what was their their idea Tecna
though I think that specifically it was
the the new equipment like the weaving
you know during the industrial
revolution in England then the machines
that were now being used to do the work
that had been done by people and they
they objected to that and that
incredible and they would literally
physically smash up the machines that
was I think one of the things they did
and which all those people with a better
study of history that can give you a
better picture but that was they would
call the Luddites I think named after
the person that that set them up someone
called LOD I think and I don't know how
big it was but it was big enough that
it's something we still know about and
it's part of the history of that of that
era and there's nothing like that now
not not to my knowledge where you don't
have people going out and smashing up
cellphone towers no make a point about
technology well I think it's what we
were saying I really like it you know
it's kind of their lives and they like
it for the most part yeah I mean there's
a lot of benefits there's a lot of
benefits to technology but I think it's
what we were talking about earlier that
maybe back then they didn't have enough
information to draw upon and they saw it
as being this direct threat to their
livelihood yeah I think that was a big
part of it yeah and I think today we're
sort of forced into this realization
that it's neither good nor bad but
rather something that needs to be
managed and there's good aspects to it
and then there's negative aspects to it
and ultimately you have to figure out
what outweighs what and how to lean it
towards the positive how to manage it in
a way that it goes towards the positive
and I think that's the case we were
talking about with children watching
television you know I know there's the
Waldorf School my oldest daughter was in
the Waldorf school system for a while
and it's a lot of wackiness to that like
they didn't believe in any technology
didn't believe in any video games but
was it been they've proven that video
games can enhance cognitive function
then in the neural pathways that are
created by stimulating video games can
actually they're they mimic the games
like chess you know like problem-solving
games games that stimulate the
imagination and creativity like they
exist video games can be used in that
same function this idea that all video
games are bad and then I found out that
the guy who founded this whole Waldorf
system was a channeler he was a
channeler like I am getting a voice
there's a spirit it's talking to me like
oh you fuck
so I'm very key our oldest son you know
you know he's in yeah I'm system yeah
that system is created by cooks
unfortunately wonderful system in a lot
of ways the school that my kid was at it
was great but the reality is that it's
founded by fuckheads
you know founded by crazy people that
I'm definitely gonna look into that
yeah Chandler yeah well we'll talk I'll
tell you the full deal when we get off
the air I'll tell you the conversations
that I had with these fucking people
where I'm like what what what the
Chandler you know there's a lot of
evidence that there's Chandler's no
there's not actually there's none
there's zero evidence that anybody's
ever been a fucker Chandler you know I
have a friend who he loves to believe in
stupid shit and he just he's not a good
critical thinker he's a great guy but
he's not a good critical thinker he's
the first when it comes to me with a
fucking ghost story you know it's and he
came to me with this psychic thing we
gotta knew all about my grandmother man
guy was real the guy's legit I go do you
know about your grandmother he goes yeah
I go so the guy told you some shit you
already knew kind of fucking uses that
what are you just talking to some guys
you're playing games you play a trivia
game playing a trivia game about things
you already know about your own family
this is ridiculous
like what kind of a question did he ask
you okay he's leading questions that you
answered in some way that he was able to
concoct the story of your life and
people want to find that these things
are correct they want to find that
someone is but there's almost no
evidence whatsoever that anybody has a
functional psychic energy and method
that is reproducible and it doesn't mean
that I don't believe in the potential
for psychic psychic powers because I
think there's some weird connection with
human beings it's probably emerging much
like a lot of our senses emerge I think
there's there's weird senses that are
emerging with human beings like for
instance they've statistically shown in
in a way that's measurable that people
can tell when people are looking at the
back of their head yeah you could tell
and someone's looking at it was
someone's looking behind you at you that
the people could sense it in a way that
is more measurable than chance so I
think there's probably something there
there's part
something when you think about someone
and they call you and that happens see
I've thought about people and all sudden
I get a email from them out of the blue
I haven't talked to them in years and
I'll said I bet a person I was that
popped into my mind like wow when that
guy's up to boom will get an email from
hey man what's up like wow what is that
is that a weird sort of a distant
connection that will eventually one day
be much more strong I don't know I don't
know but I know that a fucking channeler
starting a school that tells you not to
use cellphones and don't watch TV that
guy's a silly bitch this is ridiculous
make any sense you know I think this but
I think you're right that um they're
anything that's really extreme is it's
just not gonna be right thing and they'd
there and so we definitely don't
implement the extreme version yeah of
course they recommend that's a question
the balance right with all things even
with reading you can't read all day
every day go outside go throw walk go
ride a bike go do something get out you
got to get out you got to move you got
it and I think that that's the case with
all human experiences I mean if you're a
person who's uh there was a thing
recently that they did a thing that they
did about sex and about porn and that
people who watch porn they they actually
have less brain matter they have less
matter in their brain people that are
obsessed with porn and you know when you
think about it's probably because the
the whatever they're doing with whatever
part of their brain they're stimulating
they're constantly focused on that and
all the other shit about wondering about
existential questions the you know the
the purpose of man the the the idea of
infinity all these weird questions that
normally bounce around side a person's
brain they're completely non-existent
because you're just trying to find the
next person at jerk-off - you just put
you about that guy the other week that
came out with in the government rush
could you see he was in the
Environmental Protection Agency I think
and he was watching he was he lost his
job he's watching porn like I think six
hours a day in the office in the
government
that's even possible well people who
listen to this podcast in their office
guarantee they shouldn't be they should
be working but seeks out or they should
be pulling maybe they should be that's
like yeah it's ridiculous but there are
a ph epa employee downloaded 7,000 files
of porn at work and watched him 2 to 6
hours a day
well i don't think that guy was doing a
good job of protecting the environment
i'll say that that fucking freak
I'm not surprised if you give people the
freedom to move around like that that's
what they wind up doing people are nuts
man you give people the freedom to just
do whatever the fuck they want you know
a lot of times they do things that just
aren't smart yes that's just the way
human beings are especially if you give
them it's like we were talking about as
far as professors or police officers or
anybody in some sort of an ultimate
position where they don't have enough
supervision they don't have enough just
they have too much influence over others
and they don't have enough oversight you
wind up being this fucking guy supposed
to paint attached our drinking water
he's just beating off all day you know
and then there's all it's also a job
thing too it's like how many how many
jobs you know really should there be for
the Environmental Protection Protection
Agency and how many people do they
really need to do those jobs this guy
can yeah exactly yeah
what is he doing there well we know what
he's doing that what's the skykans yes
we do if this guy can work in the EPA
and he could still like hold down that
job and he's beating off 6 hours a day
and this was four years it wasn't like
just he went nuts and just one week for
whatever reason I went for it it was
like four years I wonder how many people
are listening in this podcast right now
they don't like the fuck that's me I
want to get busted if you're in an
office and like especially if your
computer is facing like you and you're
looking at the door so you get a clean
shot at anybody walking you know for men
men are freaks you give a guy the
opportunity to just beat off in his
office a lot of times dudes are going to
take it up you know
fireman Protection Agency Jesus Christ
what a weird world we live in
well that's an issue you imagine if like
it was back in the day where you know a
guy who was assigned to work for the the
city water department in the 1930s they
found 7,000 pornography books in his
office like Frank what the fuck are you
doing man look I'm getting crazy with
all this reading I think in a lot of
ways what we're dealing with when it
comes to pornography when it comes to
the internet when it when it comes to
just technology itself is we're dealing
with these things that have influence
over people in a way that we're not
designed to process now we're not
designed to process movies a giant
screen where explosions and you know
spaceships and all the stuff that's not
real but we're seeing it in a way that's
much more impactful than real life we're
seeing it right in front of us yeah you
know I think that that that Fox with
people's heads you know I think that
pornography the ability that anytime you
want just go online and watch people
have sex like that you know that you
could do that and it's at your little
finger tips especially if you're like
sexually starved mm-hmm you know if
you're like you really want sex and you
can't get it and you know hock and watch
it right now
I'm gonna watch sex real quick Oh margin
sucks that's a weird thing with human
beings so weird thing that we've sort of
painted ourselves into this corner we
have all this technology as we're
talking about before it's like we have
access to it and it's all it's about
managing it really but the sex thing is
also you know like reminds us that were
just animals really because you've got I
remember you know really struck like
kids love nature program so you watch
these nature programmes and basically
they're about sex and eating that's new
happens that's what happens in nature
that's what all they sound that's that's
the majority of the scenes that you see
yeah that is what it is and so we're
just in that sense animals well we
certainly are and that makes it's the
same it's it's it's not it's not I don't
think we should be surprised that it's
such a dominant part of
of life no no we definitely shouldn't be
surprised but we're also much more
complex than the average animal that's
where things get really weird where
things get really weird is that yes we
are animals but we are also animals with
computers
we're also animals that are aware that
we're animals so we have to think about
our actions were self-aware we're aware
of the influence that others have on us
and we're constantly expanding that
influence you know so we're not just
animals we're we're animals with
computers that may become part of
machines that's the thing that freaks me
out the most it's a symbiotic connection
that human beings have to technology and
the potential for developing artificial
technology or artificial life I think
that we we give birth to that I mean
Marshall McLuhan wants that human beings
are the sex organs in the machine world
and I always wonder if we're not some
strange caterpillar that becomes a
butterfly it has no idea what the fuck
it's doing and we're making some sort of
a technological cocoon thinking that
we're just I'm doing my thing running
around and looking at porn no you know
you're a part of this gigantic machine
that's processing and pushing for the
innovation of technology and the
innovation of technology will eventually
give birth to a life-form they're
constantly working on trying to map out
the human mind yeah
duplicate the functions of the human
mind it's some sort of a synthetic
process and we're not anywhere close
right now but the way technology exactly
yeah it's it's it feels unlikely that
that's not gonna happen
yeah I heard this I read this article by
this really grumpy fuck who's an
interesting guy is a smart guy but he's
also just a probably a lonely shithead
and he was mocking Ray Kurzweil how Ray
Kurzweil knows nothing about the human
mind and he was talking about the
complicated functions the human brought
mind and the way the human mind
processes proteins and that this is
barely understood but what I read from
this and what I got out of this is like
I don't think this guy understands the
biological functions are not going to
matter if they can be if these
biological functions can be completely
irrelevant because they've figured out
some sort of an artificial way to
duplicate all of the exact same synapse
hiring mechanisms like without all the
biological functions the processing or
the proteins the interacting with the
hormones and human neurotransmitters all
that stuff is great if you're using a
body but this guy was so hung up on the
fact that Kurzweil is wrong because we
don't understand how the human body
works well no no he's not because he's
just you're just talking about bodies
yeah bodies are super complicated we
haven't totally figured it out yet but
we might not have to if we can figure
out a way to do all the things that the
body does but do it with a computer or
do with technology or do with some sort
of quantum computer some sort of quantum
computer that's contained in an
artificial body that can completely
replicate the functions of consciousness
the functions of emotions of interaction
of curiosity of creativity if you can
develop an artificial computer that's
creative you know it doesn't matter of
luteinizing hormones and all this shit
that you're bitching about you're just
bitching because you're showing your
intelligence you're trying to show
people how smart you are by criticizing
a known genius because you're not a
known genius I mean that's essentially
what you're doing yeah and it seems to
just superficial I know nothing about it
but the the the body part of it feels
like the you know that there's a ton of
progress right there they sort of
biomechanics and robotics and so that is
easy compared to the brain yeah yeah no
I agree it is the the what's what they
do know about the mind and they do know
about the body is comparatively
rudimentary when you think about what we
know about a clock mm-hmm we know
everything about a clock you know you
could buy a switch watch a Swiss watch
and there's a man out there that knows
every single function of that watch
knows how it interacts knows exactly
what's going on tick tock tick tock we
don't know that about the body yet
you're right you're correct but we're
not gonna have to we're not gonna have
to because they're gonna come out with
some shit that's way better than a body
they're gonna come out with some shit
that's way stronger than a mind and it's
gonna be artificial and one day it's
gonna go hello and you're gonna go oh
shit and why exactly are you guys living
like this no just kind of going on
momentum just just how we do it I don't
think this is the best way to go about
this I don't think so either I have a
better idea oh great and then this
fucking thing is
to take over and then we're gonna have
real problems and he's gonna really
reform our campaign finance laws reach
others mine's not gonna be any voting
we're gonna know what's important and
what's not there was a guy once and I've
brought this up before but it's it's
important to note there was a guy that
we we talked about in the podcast who
had been bitten by a shark and the shark
had taken his arm and taken his leg and
he had this carbon arm and he was moving
his fingers around it and he was
standing there talking with this fake
arm his fake leg about how great it is
the technology has provided him with a
way to still be mobile and functional
even though he had been attacked by a
shark and I was sitting there and I was
thinking wow this is fascinating this
guy is like kind of a cyborg what we see
is a man with an artificial arm and the
story was about how well they had
created this arm to the point where this
guy was living a totally normal life and
you know was functional and mobile and
can take care of himself
even though his arm had been bitten off
by a monster and then I thought about
well what if it was both legs okay and
then they figured out artificial legs
who would say no to that nobody give him
some artificial legs now you can move
around okay what if it was this whole
body would say listen man we're gonna
take your head we're gonna stick it on a
robot body but you're still gonna be you
oh okay all right I'll take it
okay we're sticking your head on a robot
body but listen we got a problem the
robot body is rejecting your brain but
we found an artificial brain that works
just like your brain we're gonna
download your consciousness to this
artificial brain you won't even know the
difference okay well then who are you
and what are you what are you are you a
person still if you are your thoughts
and your personality and your memories
downloaded into some creation some sort
of a new thing that they've done that
mimics all the functions of the human
mind without any of the biological
limitations what are you yeah I remember
that it's so funny you talking about
that because it reminds me years ago
when I was doing my interviews to go to
Oxford University and I had an interview
with a philosophy professor and he gave
me this scenario which I now know is a
famous philosophical thing is called the
experience machine and this is this
construct very much like what you're
talking about which is like
we could put you in a machine that gave
you all the experiences of a fantastic
life but it would be a machine doing it
would you choose to do it and I remember
saying no that's I wouldn't want to do
that because I'd feel I'd want to have
really expert Don it myself and if
you're just in a machine that's not the
same thing either what if the machine
made you feel like that you were and
you've been on an a whatever I said
there was some kind of comeback and in
the end I just remember getting really
frustrated ah I don't know that's why I
want to come and learn about philosophy
so I can figure this stuff out but I
have no idea I lost my temper I never
did figure it out did you throw your
phone way before the phone here but it
was just there comes a point when I just
find it really hard to even go very far
with this and I just think oh well
whatever let's just sort of get on with
you know practical life today well it's
essentially it's the Dunbar's number of
philosophical discussion our minds are
limited in our ability to sort of take
these ideas in there we don't have the
capacity to extrapolate it's it's too
much so this this concept of recreating
reality in an indistinguishable manner
it's too weird it's too but I think it's
something we better start talking about
because it's common yeah I know I know
I'm really happy that you are nothing
it's really important that other people
are I'm just saying I'm not it's way
more important than other people are
doing it than me in hierarchy yes and
you've read more about it the night I
have and I just think that is yeah it's
really important that that generally we
talk about it and keep you know a really
strong sense of awareness of how these
things might change stuff and a lot of
the time it will be for the better and
that's great but we should just talk
about it well I had the opportunity to
talk to Kurzweil for an hour and a half
and I sat down and interviewed him about
these things and it was really
fascinating we had a great conversation
but this guy is not thinking about
negatives at all all he's thinking is a
gung-ho right full-blast pedal to the
metal he mean he's taking like he takes
giant bags of supplements every day
because he's an older man
he's just trying to keep his biology
alive long enough to see this this new
birth of technology and when it gets
really crazy what he's trying to do also
is he's trying to make his father come
back to life his father died when he was
young and he believes that if they
figure out a way to recreate a person
from memories from just the the
knowledge of who this person was images
that you're going to be able to recreate
this guy in some sort of an artificial
form I mean it's one of the things he's
discussed is this he wants to see his
father again and the idea that he can
recreate his father technologically from
these men from all sorts of different
things from memory from all the the data
the noodles from recorded stuff it one
of the most fascinating concepts that
I've ever heard when it comes to the
increased increasing power of computing
is that they're going to get to a point
one day if computers continue
accelerating they're going to get to a
point one day where they can take into
account all the positions of all the
objects and all the things that are
exist all over the world as data and
from them extrapolate where things will
be and where things were so by where
things were meaning knowing everything
in this room where it's at in this
position they'll be able to figure out
how it all got here who moved Jamie move
this over there and Brian picked that up
and turned it on and they'll they'll
literally be able to calculate the past
they'll be able to buy what we have here
buy everything we have here and what we
know they'll be able to calculate the
actions of the past madness run out of
time that's what yeah he's holding up
okay well at this point I'm just like
okay that's madness it is I don't
understand they'll be able to look at
the ground itself look at the the
content of the dirt the the pollution
and the ocean the carbon and the air the
distance between these two trees and the
amount of pencils that are on your desk
and they'll be able to figure out the
passed his computers would be so far
advanced it just reminds me that line I
come with which Woody Allen film where
someone's about had asked had asked his
parents how does the TV work what do I
know about they don't have the TV so I
can't even figure out how the can opener
works yeah I just you know I'm the TV
baffles me this stuff you know yeah well
it should it should and and it's it's
only gonna get more and more baffling
we're stuck with these dumb monkey
brains yes that's the problem where the
the dumb monkeys that are sitting around
here waiting for things to change and
when things do change we will be just as
weird as some Australia Pittacus if he
put him in a time machine from a million
years ago and threw them into the
fucking Burbank mall this thing would be
running around going what the fuck is
this because things change because
things grow and things evolve including
humans
we're just along for the ride so I think
the real key to human beings and it's
the most difficult aspect of life is to
get really good at this moment get
really good at just existent in the
moment and join agree with that it's
fucking hard to do right yeah it's great
it's a great way of thinking about it
because it just means that you don't
worry so much because you can you know
there's stuff that you can understand
and relate to and can be good at and
enjoy I think that's totally right and
there's some power and worry
can'tcan't worry about worrying cuz
there's a worry causes preparation
preparation causes you to cover your
bases and remove a lot of paranoia
because you relax like one of the best
things you could ever do if you're
worried about something is handle it you
know you handle it you deal with it you
don't have to worry about it anymore so
I don't think there's anything wrong
with worrying a little bit but I think
it's like all these are the things that
we've discussed it's a balancing act
there's a there's a Madonna and watch
porn all day but if you watch a little
bit I think you're gonna be okay
you know don't don't get nutty and sit
in front of TV 24 hours a day but watch
Game of Thrones every now and then I
don't think it's gonna hurt ya you know
what dude you get outside every now and
then but don't stay there
when it gets cold you need to get
indoors you know this the world's bed
a lot of shit going on and it's simply a
matter of there's so much happening and
there's so much to take in and there's
so much going on there there's not one
good or bad there's just a bunch of
different things happening all once yeah
and that's why I totally agree with you
that the more you can give people the
freedom to experience and enjoy it and
kind of you know write their own story
about how they they do stuff yeah and
not be told what to do by others the
better indeed
crowd pact there you go crowd PA c-calm
that is the website if if you're
interested in that and the elections are
today you know shockingly little
discussion both online and on the news
about them but if you're if you're
curious go to a crowd pack see our ODP
AC dot-com and and get your voting guide
get go there and click on it and enter
in all the information and find out
what's going on it's really I did check
this out I think it's pretty pretty cool
what you've done yeah it's legal
priorities you know it's really early
days this is the first little test
version of it we're just doing it for
California so I'm sorry if people are
listening outside California we won't
work so well for you I should say that
yeah there's a test but we'll be back
for the midterm elections in the fall
with them with a whole new set of things
and data for politicians all over the
country so September we'll be back with
a much more developed and much of sort
of bigger and better product and I think
it's gonna really shake things up a bit
that's the plan anyway I think it will -
I think it well - and we need to get you
together with the Young Turks yeah
sounds great yeah check that out after
you mentioned the Wolfpack thing yeah
yeah he's a running track when it comes
to that stuff - Steve thank you very
much else - yeah three hours three hours
just flew right back at that man he's a
three o'clock thanks to our sponsors
thank you to stamps.com go to stamps.com
enter in the code word JRE and get your
$110 bonus offer which includes a
digital scale and up to 55 dollars of
free postage thanks also to LegalZoom go
to legalzoom.com and
use the codeword Rogan and check out for
savings and thanks also to ting go to
Rogan ting comm and save $25 off of any
new device that's Rogan ting comm we
will be back this is it for the rest of
the week we'll be back next week and
with a lot of fascinating shit instant
anyway we'll be here next Wednesday
that's the next podcast
until then go fuck yourself no don't do
that be nice be nice to each other live
in the moment my friends enjoy it much
love big kiss good luck
[Music]